Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, how should we economize in our national government? Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion will center around an examination of current federal expenditures and will show some of the problems and possible solutions associated with reduced spending. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are the Honorable Paul H. Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois, Charles S. Heinemann, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, George W. Mitchell, Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, and Kenyon E. Poole, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. The University of Chicago Press has just published a new book by Senator Douglas entitled, Economy in the National Government. The questions discussed in this book, I think, will provide an excellent outline for our discussion today, gentlemen. To begin with, Mitchell, how much money is the federal government spending, and what are the main purposes for which these monies are spent? For the fiscal year beginning next July 1, the federal government is expecting to spend $85.5 billion, $51 billion for military services, almost $11 billion for international security and foreign aid, and $23 billion for the civilian services. To finance this expenditure, it is levying taxes on individuals that are estimated to bring in about $31 billion, taxes on corporations estimated to bring in $27 billion, and excises, customs, and other sources are totaling about $12 or $13 billion, leaving a gap between receipts and disbursements of $14 billion. Now, those data, Mitchell, will be entered on the record, but they're certainly astronomical. Do you have a comment on that, Heinemann? Yes, I do. I have to admit that I don't know what $85 billion really means to the American people. Well, it's 26% of the national income. On that one, I'd like to point out that in 1900, total public expenditures took about 3%, I think, Senator Douglas, of national income. And in 1914, they had risen to 7%. In the 1920s, they dropped back to 12%, I think, of national income. After this recent war, they had dropped back from the peak in 1945 to 25%, and now they're up to about 33%. That's including state and local taxes. That includes states and local. Of national income? Of national income, yes. Well, roughly, the proportion which federal expenditures take of national income has been doubling every decade. Might not continue indefinitely, I say. No, by the laws of growth, it's been going very fast. Well, Senator, are these enormous amounts we're spending really necessary? Well, I think the United States is in grave danger from Soviet Russia and its allies. And Mr. Mitchell's figures are quite correct. You will see that over 70% of the total expenditures are for military security. I would say that the major portion, by far the major portion of those expenditures, are necessary. But that there are wastes in the military outlays, wastes in the civilian outlays, which should permit us to save, without great curtailment of service, some $7 to $8 billions of dollars per year, and thus bring the budget much more closely into balance. Do you mean, Senator, that we can get essentially the same services for that much less money? Well, we can eliminate waste, and the services which we will drop will not be of great importance to the American public. That is, they will be the less necessary services. Of course, we do have to guard against the danger of assuming that whatever money is spent indicates simply a desire for those services. That is, we can't reason backward and assume that merely because the government spends a certain amount of money that these are the services that we necessarily... Yes, there's something lost along the way. Is it your point, Mr. Poole, that the American people are paying for having a lot of things done by the federal government that the American people don't really want done? In a sense, yes. And I would leave this back to the whole budgetary process. The budgetary process is essentially a process of weighing the alternative cost of different goods and services, privately produced and produced by the government. Now, that's a very complicated sort of thing, and to the extent that we are unable to budget accurately, then the public obviously doesn't get what they would have wished to get if we could have budgeted accurately. Therefore, the whole problem, it seems to me, is to find a method of budgeting that comes as close as possible to giving us the goods we really would want if we were asked each one individually. Well, now, I for one am concerned about this problem of waste, which you deal with in your book. On the cover page appears the statement, military authorities are probably the greatest wasters of manpower and materials in the country. Well, that's a severe charge, but it is substantially true. Why don't you spell it out a little bit? Well, anyone who has served in military establishment knows the extraordinary excess personnel in headquarters staffs and in supply units. It is literally true that in an infantry division in the Army, you will only have about 2,200 men with M1 rifles. And the infantry division has 18,000 men in it, a little over 18,000. Then there will be 42,000 people in supply and service units assisting that infantry division. So that it's, you actually have 25 men for every one man who uses a rifle in a rifle platoon. Now, they are not all technological experts by any means. There's tremendous overhead waste. And I may say that in the little Marine Corps, we get 20% more firepower from the given number of men than does the Army. And the cost per man is 25% less per man. That's a little figure which I think is very important. Now, also, in the purchase of material, the Army is extremely wasteful. For instance, Congressman Hardy of Virginia has found that in Detroit, the Ordnance Depot there has made a practice for a long period of time of buying automotive parts and, I think, automotive equipment. And they pay retail prices, although they buy in enormous quantities. They get no quantity discounts. And Congressman Hebert of Louisiana has made comparative studies of the same item purchased by the Army, the Navy, the Air Corps, and so on. And he finds the widest disparity between almost identical items. Nails, for instance. One service paying three times as much as another. My conclusion is that the procurement officers are very soft and do not have a true sense of values. Senator, do you think this is a comment that you could charge or you could lay against the entire government structure, that it's inefficiently and poorly run, poorly managed? Are you indicting the management of all the government, the civilian? I think it was Edmund Burke who said that he knew of no way to indict a whole people. And I know that when you're too wholesale in your denunciations, you have to be regarded as hysterical. I would say that there is a softness in government purchasing and in government personnel which springs from the fact that they don't, the people who do the buying and the people who do the hiring, do not have to meet the costs. And it's easy for them to allow personal favoritism and empire building to sway them if they can get the costs charged up to the taxpayers. Well, do you think this is an essential characteristic of big government? I think that it's a constant danger which one must struggle against. I do not wish to accept it as essential, but I would say that it is a constant danger. And you think the budgetary process can be used at least in part to control it and ensure better management? With an aroused and awakened public opinion, it can be. Yes, I see. But why should this softness be so dramatic in the military? Well, the military goes on the theory that it's much better to have articles and not need them, than need them and not have them. So they provide themselves with reserves for every conceivable contingency on the theory that it might be possible for everything under the sun to happen at the same time. You think that isn't a good theory? Well, mathematically, it never occurs. You seldom can afford it in any event. That's correct. Senator, you've had a pretty consistent record, I think, for taking the position that we can make substantial eliminations in the cost of the federal government. Now, to what extent is your position based on a belief that things which can properly be called waste are here? And to what extent do you think the savings have to come from curtailing activities that you think we could spare in times like these? Well, that's a good question. I would say that we could make further reductions in personnel without curtailing service, which would save, say, 200 to 250 million dollars a year, chiefly in the departments of Agriculture, State, and the Veterans Administration. Now, that, I think, is almost pure elimination of waste. Similarly, I think we could reduce the abuses in the GI program, and they are real, as Congressman Teague has shown, and save 150 million there. There's no curtailment of service. But I think also that we should reduce the volume of expenditures for public works. Irrigation is costing too much in terms of per acre watered, and we're giving federal aid for feeder roads and secondary roads, whereas I think that's a local responsibility. Senator, would you say that this is a policy you would pursue in the future when the economy might be more depressed than it is? No. No, I think that's a very important point. The deficit in the administrative budget, as you indicated earlier, is going to be about $14 billion if we carry through the administration's program. If you take into account the surplus of Social Security receipts over expenditures, the cash deficit will only be about $10 billion. But $10 billion deficit in a period when virtually everyone has a job, when unemployment is less than 3%, means that the government, in issuing bonds, will primarily have these bonds purchased by the banks, which will create credit against which the government will draw for the payment of labor and materials. And what happens is that you inject more monetary purchasing power into the economy, which is already about to full employment. And the result will be a rise in prices and in inflation. So that a deficit in a period of full employment, I think, has very bad consequences. Now, in a period in which there is, say, 20% unemployment, 15% unemployment, then if you launch out on public works, you put people to work who otherwise would not be employed, you create monetary purchasing power to use the resources of the economy more effectively. I believe in the compensatory budget theory. But the point is that if we should have a surplus of expenditures over receipts in a period of depression, we certainly have a surplus of expenditures over receipts in depression. We certainly shouldn't carry that out in a period of full employment. If anything, it ought to be a surplus of receipts over expenditure. I was just going to say, Senator, that in view of the fact that business borrowing from the banks is also inflationary, it seems to follow that the government ought to be running a surplus rather than a deficit. That's right. But that's almost more than we can hope for. I would settle if we could balance the cash budget. Well, can't we do something with this budget-making procedure pool that would get at least part of this problem that the Senator is discussing here? Well, it seems to me that there are some rather fundamental problems here that do center around the budget-making progress. It would appear that we have to examine this process from the top to the bottom. The budget is first prepared in the executive branch and then is submitted to Congress for authorization. Now, it's generally argued that there are weaknesses in both these processes. Of course, we couldn't hope to go into all of them here, but just by way of a starter, I would suggest that the Bureau of the Budget could operate more efficiently if perhaps it had a school to train fiscal officers, which it then parceled around among the various government agencies so that the government agencies would be equipped to come out with more reasonable estimates of their needed expenditures to start with. I don't think that's a panacea. I think there are many other problems. Well, I think that's a suggestive idea, except that everybody gets carried away with this sense of mission, that they're administering a very important program and they need lots of money to do it. And then also there's the very human factor, that the bigger the program, the more important a person they are themselves, and actually the more people they have under them, the more responsibility they're said to have, and the more responsibility, and the higher their salary. So that there's an inflationary force, an expansive force in government employment that needs someone, I believe, outside the executive branch to ride herd on the administrators and to keep them in line. I know this is very unpopular with teachers of political science because they exalt administration over legislation. Well, that would at least affect the portion of the budget that involves payroll, but of course a great deal of the budget does not involve payroll. Well, I will say that the procurement officers in the civilian branches as well as the military branches are very, very lax. They do not get full value for their money. Of course, you'll excuse me for suggesting the possibility that there might be some in Congress who are contributing to this. Oh, that is true. Oh, certainly, certainly. And back of the men in Congress, you get the groups of civilians too. For instance, there was a North Shore suburb where I get more letters. And from any other community in Illinois demanding cuts in the budget, the citizens of that city were insistent a year ago that the federal government construct a harbor for the yachts and motorboats of the wealthy residents there. And I had quite a time with those people. Senator, I think you and Mr. Poole are a little bit optimistic about what the budget makers and the Bureau of the Budget can actually do. I don't see how those fellows can really run down and find the sources of waste. It seems to me that that's really got to be found by the people in the administrative department. Now, in respect to curtailing services... Mr. Heinemann is a political scientist. I know. Well, he's... I'm... ...amused amongst political scientists in not exalting the public administrator. Well, I'm glad you took that little bit of dirt off of me that we were on here a moment ago. You're very sensible on that. But when it comes to this matter of curtailing services, I don't think these fellows in the Bureau of the Budget can do much, and I don't know that I think they ought to. That seems to me to be a political question. Now, if the President of the United States had about ten times as many hours in a day and as many days in a year as there are, then he could make those decisions. But I don't think he can. So it seems to me that practically all decisions that go to curtailing services as distinguished from identifying wasteful practices, practically all that's to be accomplished there has got to be accomplished by the congressman. Well, I think that may well be true. And in that direction, I would like to point out, I think we've emphasized the navigation of a number of rivers to an excessive degree. I don't think the Arkansas River will ever become a great thoroughfare for ocean traffic, nor will the Missouri. And we're wasting hundreds of millions of dollars on those rivers for navigation purposes. But you might invest a little money in the old Missouri to keep it from flooding the country. Well, now that, yes, we should. But the work there should be done in the main upstream, checking the flow of water in the tributary streams and preventing the runoff on slopes and farmland and so forth. Senator, I'd like to ask a question on this question, this point of the effectiveness of the Bureau of the Budget in trying to curtail expenditures. If the Budget Bureau can't do it, as Mr. Heinemann seems to suggest, how about a sister organization in Congress itself, a committee with a large staff reporting to it, which would essentially duplicate the work of the Bureau of the Budget, but also would provide competition? Well, I think that's a very good suggestion. In theory, of course, the two committees on appropriations do that, but they're understaffed. And when I was going into the military appropriations last year, I was somewhat startled to find that the Senate Committee on Appropriations had only one man who was their expert and dealt with the military budget of some 56 billions of dollars, whereas the military probably had thousands of men. We're increasing the staff of those committees, and Senator McClellan has proposed that a joint committee on appropriations be set up for both House and Senate competently staffed. I think that would be a help. And I also believe that the Comptroller General of the United States should be called in to help us. The Comptroller General is Lindsay Warren, who's one of the great public servants of all time. He makes a post-audit of expenditures to detect fraud and to see whether the money spent is in accordance with the basic legislation. In this process, he finds out the soft spots in the various departments. But we don't use him when the requests for appropriations come out. I think he should be asked, or his agents, asked to appear before the Appropriations Committee. He should be sort of the angel's advocate, if one may use such a phrase, to point out the soft spots in the appropriations and try to get reductions. What do you think of that suggestion, gentlemen? Well, Senator, it seems to me that a committee of this sort, properly staffed, could do a great deal of good, but it ought to confine it, it ought to concentrate its efforts upon legislation, which involves broad expenditure programs. And at the time the legislation is initially being adopted or is substantially being amended, it ought to forecast and predict the financial and budgetary effects of these changes, so that when Congress makes a change in the basic law that has important financial implications, it knows what those implications are. Oh, that's quite right. It shouldn't take up all the minor items. It should concentrate on the major sources of expenditure. That's quite right. Well, Mr. Mitchell, that would seem to indicate that substantive legislation ought always to be accompanied by revenue legislation at the same moment, so that a proper assessment is made of the cost of any given... Well, at least an acknowledgement of the commitment being entered in here ought to be made, and Congress ought to know what it's doing in terms of dollars and cents, not only this year, but next year and succeeding year. Well, I'm a little skeptical about that. It seems to me that the reason for having the appropriations fixed annually, the Constitution doesn't require that. It says it shall be fixed at least every two years for the military purposes. The reason we fix the appropriations annually is so that we can reconsider how much we want to do of this and that, how good a job we want to do of whatever we've authorized be done. Therefore, when the congressman authorize the activity and set up the administrative organization to carry it on, they're at that stage only saying we want to get going on this, and from year to year, we'll decide how far we want to go on that. The trouble is, you can't backtrack very easily. But that's a very important point. For instance, in Imperial Germany and in Imperial Japan, the legislative branch lost control of the military because the military were able to present budgets for a long period of years, and the legislature did not have the power of annual reviewing. And we're getting into a very bad condition on that point now in the military appropriations. For instance, we have appropriated for the military some $38 billion which they have not yet spent. And on top of that, they're asking for further appropriations of $52 billion this year, which will give them a kitty of $90 billion. Now they say it's necessary for us to appropriate $52 billion for this year so that they can start the pipelines going not for $52 billion, $53 billion, but for $53 billion, $54 billion. And the possibility of our present control is diminishing. Take the field of foreign military aid, which I happen to believe in. We are not only being asked to appropriate $7.9 billion, but there's well over $8 billion of past appropriations which have not been spent. So that that would give them in turn $16 billion with which to play. And we're rapidly getting into a situation in which we're asked to appropriate sums which are not spent, but which then hang over us in the future. and the power of Congress to regulate expenditures in any one year has been vastly diminished. Senator, in view of the fact that it's impossible for Congress to ask the military questions as to what they're doing about this, much information of course is classified. It would almost appear as if there is simply nothing that can be done about this, that this is a kind of law of nature in the circumstances to which we're... Why do you say I don't want to admit that because that's a counsel of hopelessness. I agree. But the budget does in effect consist of a series of estimates of what you're going to spend on programs you've already adopted. Much of the budget is just that. Yeah, that's right. Instead of a review. And another example is deficiency appropriations. That's the same thing. That's quite right. Supplementals, I think they call them. Well, call them supplementals. But you said something a minute or two ago that to me is just almost incredible that the military comes in with a budget of some $52 billion and they've had a huge staff working on this and working over it. Sure. And did you say that you have one man that the Senate... The Senate Military Affairs Committee last year had one man to scrutinize that budget. Well, how in the name of common sense can you pass on that kind of a budget? Well, it was very difficult. I had a research man and I worked on it but the committee itself had only one man. Well, it would seem to me... Well, very frankly, we were not competent to deal with it. That's quite true. It would seem to me as a rank layman here that it would make complete sense to provide somebody with a staff to look into this thing. Well, I quite agree with you. I quite agree with you. And I only hope that the voters would not think this was rank expenditure if we hired a few people to scrutinize the estimates of the military. Is there any quarrel with that around this table? I don't think there's any quarrel but ordinarily when there's a good deal of public pressure to reduce expenditures and there are certain apparently irreducible or lumpy elements then there's a tendency to reduce those that it's easy to reduce. Now, frequently these are the very ones that are most expensive. For example, I'd like to say here that a reduction in appropriations to the Bureau of Internal Revenue for example costs the public not hundreds of millions but perhaps even billions of dollars. In tax evasions. In tax evasions. In tax evasions. Which could easily be caught with a few hundred more employees or perhaps a few thousand but the cost is almost nothing compared to what you'd get. I think, Senator, the way you made your proposition may make it appear that you're asking for more here than I suspect you really are. Your proposal to staff the congressional committees would not really involve anything approaching a duplication of the number of people over in the administrative branches. I think that say fifty or sixty men would be adequate on the committees and perhaps Lindsay Warren given ten more men. But for them to subject these budgets to critical analysis for instance virtually all the testimony before the appropriations committee is in favor of appropriations. There's almost no testimony which is critical of appropriations so that the whole pressure is to jam the appropriations through. Now I take it what this staff would do would put its finger on those spots where they thought there's probably the most fact. That's correct. Investigate those and it would not mean duplicating the work of the Bureau of the Budget on every agency every year. It would be a parallel agency but not a duplicating agency. Senator do you think the American people really want these economies? Well they want them in general but are they when it hits them? Yes. But the difficult they want them in general but on any particular item doesn't matter much so that their interest is diffused on any particular issue whereas the interest in favor of the appropriation is concentrated on a particular issue. The one they're interested in they really want. And in the struggle between a diffused general interest and a concentrated private interest the latter wins almost every time. And then in addition some people who are in favor of economy as a general matter have a particular appropriation that is their pet and they in order to get their pet appropriation through they have to lay off the others and there's a process of mutual back scratching or mutual toleration. Since democracy is essentially a government by pressure groups it seems to me Senator Douglas there's a good deal of ground for deep pessimism. I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion How Should We Economize in Our National Government? We wish to thank our guests the Honorable Paul Douglas United States Senator from Illinois Charles Heinemann Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University George W. Mitchell Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and Kenyon Poole Professor of Economics at Northwestern University We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin or you may subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Next week the reviewing stand asks what does Puerto Rico mean to us? Our guests will be Antonio Fernosicern Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico to the United States Clarence F. Jones Chairman of the Department of Geography at Northwestern University Mary Proudfoot Newfield College Oxford University and Rockefeller Foundation analyst of United States and British government in the Caribbean area and Rexford Guy Tugwell former governor of Puerto Rico advisor to the late President Roosevelt and currently professor of political science at the University of Chicago. We invite you to join us next week to hear what does Puerto Rico mean to us? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer Jerry Coffer this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Today the reviewing stand asks how should we economize in our national government? Our unrehearsed give and take transcribed discussion will center around an examination of current federal expenditures and will show some of the problems and possible solutions associated with reduced spending. Now our moderator James H. McBurney Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are the Honorable Paul H. Douglas United States Senator from Illinois. Charles S. Heinemann Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. George W. Mitchell Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. And Kenyon E. Poole Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. The University of Chicago Press has just published a new book by Senator Douglas entitled Economy in the National Government. The questions discussed in this book I think will provide an excellent outline for our discussion today, gentlemen. To begin with, Mitchell, how much money is the federal government spending and what are the main purposes for which these monies are spent? For the fiscal year beginning next July 1, the federal government is expecting to spend $85.5 billion, $51 billion for military services, almost $11 billion for international security and foreign aid, and $23 billion for the civilian services. to finance this expenditure, it is levying taxes on individuals that are estimated to bring in about $31 billion, taxes on corporations estimated to bring in $27 billion, and excises, customs, and other sources are totaling about $12 or $13 billion, leaving a gap between receipts and disbursements of $14 billion. Now, those data, Mitchell, will be entered on the record, but they're certainly astronomical. Do you have a comment on that, Heinemann? Yes, I do. I have to admit that I don't know what $85 billion really means to the American people. Well, it's 26% of the national income. On that one, I'd like to point out that in 1900, total public expenditures took about 3%, I think, Senator Douglas, of national income. And in 1914, they had risen to 7%. In the 1920s, they dropped back to 12%, I think, of national income. After this recent... What people eat two tons of meat a year? Are fat and love caused by chemical attraction? Why do some people talk with an echo? Ladies and gentlemen, the American Pro Tam Company brings you one of the most unusual quiz programs on the air because this program answers questions about you. In a moment, you'll hear an amazing... ... ... ... ... ...