Welcome to His Royal Highness Prince Bertil. Now I don't know of anything that would justify changing the official greeter in the City of New York from Grover Whelan to Commissioner Wallander, except that while His Highness represents all that is great in Sweden, Commissioner Wallander represents all the greatness of the Swedish people in New York City, and he is exactly the man to make. Your Highness, in our city you will find many peoples from all over the world. Each racial group has brought to this city traditions that go back into the prehistoric times in the history of each race. And from this aggregation of the wisdom of the world, there has grown New York City, in which we have lived as a United Nations all of these years, and are now living at peace and in harmony with one another. And we're very happy to have outstanding figures from any race to come to visit us. But because of many great circumstances that have to do with the contribution of the Swedish people to the growth of the United States, contributions that have been marked and that are still going on, still going on, we are most happy today to give this official welcome to Your Highness, both personally and as representing a great people. You will find, sir, not only in this city but throughout the country, that the descendants of those hardy Vikings who came here 100 years ago and in the intervening years, years, that they are great people, great men and great women, that they are among our outstanding citizens. And none in New York City better represents the character and the strength and the intelligence and the patriotism of your people than does Commissioner Wallander who greeted you at the airport yesterday. I hope that during your five weeks in the United States that you will like us as well as we like you and your people. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. And now, I have the honor to present to you, Mr. Mayor, His Royal Highness, Prince Betel of Sweden. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, once more the city of New York has extended its greetings of welcome to a group of foreign visitors, a welcome unparalleled in the world in its spirit of friendliness and hospitality. I have been in this city before and so have several of my fellow delegates. Others are here for the first time. But I can assure you, Mr. Mayor, that we all are equally impressed. We have come to this country at the invitation of our kinsmen in the Middle West. Men and women of Swedish birth or ancestry who, during the next few weeks, will celebrate the centennial of the great trek from Sweden across the ocean and across this continent to the plains and hills of the Mississippi and the Missouri Valley. It certainly is a great honor for the Swedish delegation to these Midwestern celebrations to receive its first welcome on American soil from the city of New York. This friendly, this very friendly gesture seems singularly fitting for the occasion to hundreds and thousands of Swedes whose life work we have been invited to commemorate. Together with their descendants, New York was the gateway. I cannot help thinking of how different from ours their crossing was. We have, as you perhaps know, travelled swiftly by air and safely in great comfort, yes, even luxury. We know that ahead of us lie weeks during which friends will do their utmost to make our stay pleasant and memorable. We know that. Those who came here before us, in search of new life in a strange country, travelled quite differently, often on a small and unsafe vessels jammed together in narrow quarters, with perhaps little or nothing that they could call their own, and in their hearts of a feeling of great anxiety for the future. No one can tell what they thought when they first saw New York, this big, wonderful city New York, above the horizon. One thing we know for certain, they did not turn back. Some of them stayed right here in this city, but most of them set out across the continent and founded their homesteads, built their cabins and farms, and took their place in the great army of America's pioneers. In a few hours, the delegation will start its journey westward. We are looking forward very much to it, with great expectations. There will be much to see and to learn, I am sure. We shall renew old acquaintances and make new friends. In a month, we shall, in round about a month, we shall be back in New York again. Somewhat tired, perhaps, but no doubt full of pleasant memories and experiences. To you, Mr. Mayor, I beg to express my own very sincere thanks, and those of my fellow delegates for this wonderful reception we have received here in your great city of New York. I thank you very much. Thank you very much, Prince Bratel. I desire at this time, before closing the proceedings, to thank the members of the Swedish Pioneer Centennial Committee for their efforts in making this visit to Prince Bratel's here, the success it is. And, uh... And, uh, now, folks, there will be a reception line of, uh, those who want to greet the Prince, if they'll form that way and then pass out to the left here. Why, he'd be delighted to greet you, I'm sure. Commissioner Wallander, heading our great police departments. We might say the Minister of Police for this great city of New York, a nation in itself, acted as chairman to the Mayor's Reception Committee today. And, as Mayor O'Dwyer pointed out, Commissioner Wallander is one of the outstanding and great Swedes of our city. And, for that reason, he headed the Mayor's Reception Committee today in order to greet his fellow countrymen prince from the ancient land of Sweden. Those familiar with American history know the colonization efforts of the Swedish people in the earlier colonial days, back in the 17th century, in fact, and right on down to about a hundred years ago, when great numbers of Swedes came here and made the covered wagon journey to the Middle West and founded some of the great towns there in the Middle West, in line with the description given by Prince Bratel. Well, again, where I found the Republic of America, we now have the villagei Manu, who did not make a strange conflict with the Depression down much more bFORE JOHN. And, thanks for looking at such films.