今日のお命すち those uh... Thank you. I believe that this is very necessary and important in order that the speakers who will be heard should clearly see where the bulk of the city's money is to be spent next year and what would have to be done to other vital services if their requests for added funds are to be adopted. I cannot emphasize these points too much since altogether too often many proponents of additional appropriations do not realize that the funds to finance them must come from within the proposed allotments in the budget. Therefore, an increase in one area must be accompanied by a decrease in other areas. In front of the rostrum are two charts which in summary form present a picture of how the money in our city budget is to be spent. Let us begin with the chart on your left. You will notice that it shows that the total to be spent in a 1953-1954 budget is $1,528,000,000. Of this sum, $307,5,000,000 is to be obtained from federal and state aid as well as from other miscellaneous sources. That leaves $1,220,5,000,000 of city funds to be spent. Of this sum, we are required by law to include $455,5,5,000,000 for the following fixed items. These cannot be reduced because they are mandatory. Debt service. That is for interest and redemption of bonds issued to build new schools, hospitals, and other public improvements. For pension contributions for city employees, $123,5,000,000. For expenses of the mandatory courts, $14,5,000,000. For judgments and claims, tax deficiencies, et cetera, $36,000,000. After deducting these must items, there is left a total of approximately $765,000,000. This is the total sum the city can use and proposes to spend for operating all the 90 different city activities. How do we intend to spend this $765,000,000 next year? The second shot, which appears on your right, in the front of this room, shows this very clearly. There you will notice that out of the $765,000,000, 86%, or $657,000,000, is to be spent for only eight city activities. Schools and colleges, $186,5 million. Welfare, $46,5,000,000. Hospitals, health, and institutional care, including voluntary hospitals, $147,5,000,000. Police, $97,000,000. Fire, $57,000,000. Sanitation, $59,5,000,000. Recreation, $34,000,000. Water supply system, $29,000,000. Just think of it. 86% for only eight city activities. These eight activities embrace the very areas in which everyone is seeking to spend more money, not less. That leaves only $108,000,000 for the almost 80 other city activities, which include such vital services as our docks, ferries, bridges, streets, legal agencies, district attorneys, the lower courts, correctional institutions, and so on. It is simple arithmetic for those who are demanding further cuts in this budget to see that the bulk of these cuts must come from the most vital areas, since almost all of the money to be spent is allocated to the eight activities indicated on this chart. For those who are demanding that more money be spent for these vital activities, it is obvious that the money to finance such additional appropriations can come only from the $108,000,000,000, which is to be spent for the 80 other city activities. Substantial cuts in these activities will be difficult, since the sum now allowed is practically a rock-bottom figure to maintain these services, which are so necessary to round out our city operations. I have taken these few minutes to present these facts to you in the hope that you will have a better understanding of the city's financial picture, as well as the problems this board is faced with in determining whether your request, however valid it may be, can be favorably considered. I cannot emphasize too strongly that the funds for any addition which you are seeking to make to this budget must be obtained from the items shown on the chart to your right. It cannot be obtained from the items in the chart shown on your left, since they are mandatory and cannot be reduced. On behalf of the President of the Council, may I state that he's not here because he's confined to his bed with a fever and virus. He regrets he cannot be here. Lord Department, Frederick R. Hess. Frederick R. Hess. Help. Prince proof. Lord Prince Boulez. Exªz. Power eing. Page of 한. Poo Schulen. Saint cytol. Reval. ayud. 766 gland.��. nu goed. demand. Museums, John Walden Meyer. Members of the Board of Estenet, may I read a short statement on the Museum of the City of New York. The allotment of city funds to the Museum of the City of New York, provided in the 1953-54 executive budget, contemplates a reduction in essential personnel below our present inadequate total. Rather than complain of this reduction, the Museum is attempting to do its best to cooperate in meeting the difficult financial situation which confronts the city authorities. We have been operating at a deficit for several years, so the solution will involve a decision as to what part of our services we must deny the public without endangering the safety of our collections and our building. But should a further reduction be imposed, we would find ourselves in the plight of a man who must decide whether to sacrifice an arm or a leg. We are warned of the possibility of a further cut of $20,000, added to the $12,350 we are already attempting to digest. Inevitably, should this further reduction occur, we would have to discontinue our present program of cooperation with the Board of Education, through which last year over 62,000 public school children visited the Museum in classes and were given guided tours, followed by a lecture by our educational staff, carefully coordinated with their school programs. Other services finished by our educational department include our traveling exhibitions to elementary and high schools, which are seen annually by thousands of young people, and our traveling exhibits to hospitals. Though it is evident that these services are a worthwhile investment in education and good citizenship, their cost of about $14,000 annually has always been entirely defrayed by the private funds of the Museum. Not only would all these services have to be abandoned, should further reduction be made, but we should also be obliged to close half of the exhibition galleries now open to the public, which were visited by over 170,000 people during 1952, and to eliminate almost all our special temporary exhibitions. This radical curtailment of our activities would be a necessity in order to devote the funds necessary for their operation to the maintenance and protection of our irreplaceable collections in our beautiful building, which must be preserved and protected for future New Yorkers, even at the sacrifice of our present services to the public. We earnestly hope that the Board of Estimate will be able to find a solution to the current financial problem, which will not further curtail our public services, but which will make it possible for the Museum of the City of New York to continue to represent and serve this great city properly. Respectfully submitted. Sir Lawrence Beattie, did you speak for Mr. Beattie too, Mr. Meyer? I didn't know, sir. Did you also... I spoke for Mr. Beattie, yes, sir. All right, thank you. Thank you. Councilman Aloysius J. Michal. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen of the Board, it's not my purpose to talk upon the budget as a whole. Lord knows there's plenty to say about the budget. But I'm primarily interested in the hospital and health situation. It's been my privilege to be engaged and interested in hospitals, health and welfare for the past 40 years, long before I anticipated holding office. At the present time, there's a resolution of mine pending in the council, requesting the Board to endeavor to provide sufficient funds for a nurse education program. I will not go into that because I understand Dean Kiley of Queens College touched upon it within the past couple of days. We are short 3,000 nurses in New York City. This education program would reduce the time required for a nurse's training. It would cost approximately $100,000. I am primarily interested at this time in the delay in opening the addition to Queens General Hospital. When that addition was started, they had to take over the clinic, portions of the clinic department, the reception department of the clinic. Clinical service has been disrupted. And if the opening of that new wing is deferred further, there will be chaos in Queens General Hospital. As it is, Queens has less than 50% of the required beds for its population, hospital beds. During the past week, our government anonymously signed a bill increasing the state's contribution for tubercular patients from what was supposed to be 50% of the cost, or $2.50, a figure set many years ago. He increased it to further $2.50 to $5 per day. But the catch, gentlemen, that does not become effective until January 1, 1954, when Mr. Dewey and his cohorts feel that they may have control of New York City. A mistaken idea, of course. I know it's going to be difficult to provide funds for these needed facilities. I know the board has contemplated new forms of taxes, particularly nuisance taxes, when we all know that if we could reach some of the 400,000 people from outside the city who are employed in the city every day, who spend no money for taxes in New York City, we could eliminate many of these nuisance taxes. But I don't see that the payroll tax which Albany sent down to us is the solution. Perhaps an income tax based upon the proportion of the federal income tax paid by these people might be the answer. I hope the mayor will succeed in having the governor permit the legislature to consider such proposition at their special session. I refer to the people from outside the city who pay no taxes in New York City. We have an auto-use stamp tax in New York City. None residents of the city do not pay it. We assume that all residents obey the law and purchase such a stamp. Gentlemen, if you will proceed westward on the Grand Central Parkway any evening between 5.30 and 7.30, within a space of seven miles, approximately, from Francis Lewis Boulevard westward to Kew Gardens Borough Hall, you will find traffic coming out from New York as heavy as any Sunday morning in July. I had occasion to make that journey last night at 5.50 p.m. 90 out of 100 automobiles coming eastward were without an auto-use stamp. The natural assumption is that those are residents outside the city whose cars are parked someplace in the city who use the city's roadways five days per week, probably 50 weeks per year. A form of income tax might be the answer to the city's problems, an income tax upon those 400,000 who live outside the city. Gentlemen, I'm particularly interested, as I say, in the early opening of the Queens General Hospital. Last year, in the communicable disease portion of that hospital, a condition existed which was detrimental to the life limb of all the polio patients in that section, and Queens had the record number of polio cases in New York City last year. I'm glad to say that that condition has since been corrected. Closing, gentlemen, while I cannot speak for the entire official family of the city of New York, and this may be heresy, I personally would be willing to suffer a reduction in my official salary if others would agree, so that Queens General Hospital might be opened. Thank you, John. Councilman. Yes, sir. I just want to say I want to thank you for the clear thinking and the fine presentation of this case. Too bad we don't have more public officials like you. I am not speaking as a public official, Mr. Borough President. I'm speaking as a citizen of Queens, representing more than a half million people and a man interested in hospitals and health and welfare. Either way you're speaking, it sounds very good to me. Thank you. Councilman, so the public won't be... come to the conclusion that this increase in TB8 is a bonanza to the city of New York. I want to make it clear... I wish you would, Mr. Borough President. that we have been pressing for this adjustment for the last six years. This TB formula was set up by the state way back in 1947. At that time, the cost of taking care of a city patient was approximately $5 a day. Since that time, the cost has gone up to a minimum of $11 a day. The state are way back in 1947. The state's responsibility was a state responsibility and the state's responsibility as well as a city responsibility. And based upon the cost at that time, they agreed to pay 50% of the cost, which was then $2.50 a day. Now, every year since that time, after the cost went up to $11 a day, the city has pressed for legislation to correct that inequity. And every year, it's been received in Albany with a deaf ear. This year, for the first time, the state's responsibility was acknowledged. And they are now to contribute on the basis of $5 a day, which is still less than 50%. But it's a step in the right direction. But it's a step in the right direction. We thought that was pretty good. That after all these years, the state had finally looked up to its responsibility. But so that the public will not be misled. The same time that they increased their aid for TB cases, they offset it by a decrease in the welfare allowance presently allowed to the city of New York, so that today, although they increased the aid on TB cases, they decreased the aid on welfare generally so that it's practically a Mexican standoff. I just wanted to clear that up. I think, Mr. Mayor, the public should also be informed that even if that $2.50 increase was made a $10 increase, it wouldn't help us with this budget because it's not effective until next year. I just wanted to clear that up so that... Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Harry Mustard. Dr. Mustard. Raymond P. Sloan. Mrs. George M. Billings. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Mrs. H. Clifford Gailey. Your Honor and members of the Board of Estimate, The New York City Hospital Visiting Committee of the State Charities Aid Association is cognizant of the serious financial straits of the City of New York. It is gravely concerned about the proposed budget for the Department of Hospitals as presented to the Board of Estimate by the Mayor of the City of New York. The Mayor is to be commended for his efforts to solve the City's financial problems. But his attention, that of the Board of Estimates and that of the Budget Director, is respectfully called to the fact that the public interest will be better served by selective economy rather than by across-the-board budget limitations, which would result in serious defect of the sick and the services of the Department of Hospitals. In contrast with those of many departments of city governments, are demand services rather than elective services. There is no choice as to when and what services must be furnished. This is determined by the number and character of the sick, not by the Commissioner of Hospitals or by general policies. The New York City Hospital Visiting Committee has had more than 80 years of experience in studying problems in the municipal hospitals and knows intimately the conditions and problems in each. On the basis of this experience, the Committee cannot but characterize the 1953-54 Budget as presented by the Mayor as dangerously inadequate. It does not provide for solution of the critical problems of personnel and maintenance which the Department faces day after day. On the contrary, it invites loss of competent personnel and vacancies. It almost inevitably ensures breakdown and deterioration of equipment and buildings. The sum of these things means poorer care of the sick. The Committee is especially concerned about the following items in the Department of Hospital Budgets which have been deferred or deleted. Item 1, the decision to defer opening of the East Bronx Tuberculosis Hospital from the originally scheduled date, January 1, 1954, to July 1, 1954. At the present time, there are 5,200 patients with tuberculosis in our municipal hospitals. There is provision for only 5,000 beds for such patients. Thus, 200 patients with tuberculosis are in our general municipal hospitals. This is potentially a public health hazard. There are approximately 500 cases of tuberculosis awaiting hospitalization. Thus, by deferring the opening of the East Bronx Hospital for Tuberculosis until July, 1954, the wards in our municipal hospitals will become increasingly and more dangerously crowded. And the provision of care for these awaiting admission will be seriously delayed. Item 2, the decision to defer opening the 236-bed wing at Queen's General Hospital from original scheduled date, July 1, 1953, to January 1, 1954. The wards at Queen's General Hospital at the present time are overcrowded. The outpatient department is overcrowded. Thus, the new wing should be permitted to open as soon as it is completed by October 1, 1953, to take care of the patients receiving medical care of Queen's General Hospital. Item 3, the elimination of expansion and improvement programs involving such services as home care, physical medicine rehabilitation, and diagnostic clinics, etc. Aside from humanitarian consideration, these services can save the city money by releasing patients more speedily from municipal hospitals. Item 4, the reduction of requested appropriations for various repair and equipment expenditures. Our visitors are constantly presenting findings on the need for equipment and repairs. Actually, a failure to provide sufficient funds for repair results in a waste of the taxpayer's money. If small repairs are not made currently, major repairs causing even more expenditure of funds must be made in emergencies. The committee, made up of private citizens, respectfully urges reconsideration of the budget of the Department of Hospitals. It recognizes the financial condition of the city as constituting a crisis. But at the same time, it sees the plight of the sick in New York City as an emergency that must be met in a selective and realistic manner. Thank you. Thank you. First of all, I have to report. Very close, I will ask! All right! Thank you. Mr. Tennant. Leonard Mayo. Mrs. Sylvia Oronowicz. Dr. Paul Seldin. Mrs. Ethel Weinstein. Mrs. Vivian Mason. Mrs. Valen. Mrs. Cor 보시면. You know. Ms.metro Schl 大, Jennifer Alt, Mayalk and Sidney Simonson, Kermit A. Cassells, Ralph D'Orio, John E. Adams, Gentlemen of the Board of Estimates, I do not propose to assault anyone's intelligence by any carnival shouts as a financial wizard from the suburbs. It is true that I am from the suburbs. I am not a financial wizard, and I will not believe that a financial wizard might accomplish any quick cure of the financial ills of our city. I do know, though, that you do not have to be a financial wizard to know what every housewife knows. That is, you cannot spend more than your income without eventually having to make an extreme sacrifice to get back on a sound long-range policy of properly financed government. Another comparison along these lines I would like to make is that in order for a housewife to set up a sound household fiscal policy, she must have the cooperation of her husband. In other words, the members of the household must cooperate with each other to bring about financial soundness. Each member of the board is a member of the household of the city of New York, of this board. Is there cooperation in this connection between the members of the board? Definitely there is not. There is far too much political ambition displayed by too many members of this board, which far overshadows any real desire to accomplish any real cure of the financial ills of the city. However, just as a housewife will not deprive one child of shoes or food while giving to the others, so should the board feel towards each of the five boroughs. It is proposed by this budget to cut the Department of Correction budgets and eliminate the city prison in Richmond. I wish to strongly voice objection to this cut of service to the people of Staten Island. I believe it would be better to reduce the service in connection with garbage collection on Staten Island rather than close the jail, for the very simple reason that if the transit fares and the taxes continue to increase, garbage will be something that only the rich will be able to afford on Staten Island. I think that the remarks made by our District Attorney of Richmond in our local newspaper concerning the matter of the discontinuance of the jail in Richmond, both to the people of the borough, to the attorneys and to the law enforcement agencies, were apropos. In this respect, I wish to add that it would also be crippling to the judiciary in many respects. For just one point out of many in this regard, let me call your attention to Section 731 of the Judiciary Law, having to do with punishment for criminal contempt. This section of the law definitely points out the maximum term for criminal contempt, and in addition specifically states that such imposed sentence shall be served in a jail in a county where such contempt was committed. What I am pointing out here is that no jail in the county, no more punishment for criminal contempt. The closing of the Richmond jail is supposed to save about $126,000. It is easy to save this sum in other ways without closing the jail. In the Raymond Street jail right now, there are about 165 prisoners awaiting sentence in the Kings County Court. Each of these prisoners will spend an average of about two months between the date of conviction and the date of imposition of sentence. A speedier imposition of sentence in this court so that the average weight between date of conviction and date of sentence would be reduced from two months to one month, would reduce the average number awaiting such sentencing from the average of 150 to the average of 75. It cost the taxpayer of this city about $4 a day to keep a man in jail. This means that 75 men less than the Brooklyn jail would mean $75 times $4 per day multiplied by $365 gives a total of $109,500 a year. This is only one of the many economies which could be affected in the management of this city. In addition, there is a reduction in the marine and aviation budget, which might possibly mean a reduction in ferry service to Staten Island. The ferry service to and from Staten Island is the only inter-borough connection and should be likened to the bridges linking other boroughs. I hear no threats of closing any of the bridges between any of these boroughs. If the people of Staten Island are going to be subjected to any reduction in city service, are they going to receive a compensatory reduction in their tax rate? Or do you expect that despite the fact that their city services are reduced, they will pay the same basic tax rate as the other boroughs? This would be likened to two people going into one of our large department stores, one of these persons from Staten Island and the other from one of the other boroughs. They are both buying the same article. The buyer from the other borough buys $6 for $3 while the buyer from Staten Island gets only $5 for the same $3. This may seem ridiculous, but actually this is what you are proposing by cutting our service and continuing the same tax rate. When the statement concerning taxes on real estate is brought into the picture, it is always that they do not pay their fair share of taxes. When real estate is mentioned, one might visualize some well-fed prosperous group of people. This is not so, for I am part of this real estate group. I own my own home in the backwaters of the community, Staten Island, for which I paid $3,500 in 1939 and on which I now owe $5,000. My taxes have gone up, cost of fuel, transportation, and maintenance has risen. My home expenses in 1943 averaged about $53 per month. Presently, the same expense amounts to about $90 per month, approximately a 70% increase. I certainly consider that I am paying more than my fair share of the cost of city government. This trying to Albany for more state aid is not the answer to the city's problem. Another comparison, if I may. If a person earned $5,000 last year and spent $6,000, should he go to his employer and tell him that he needs more money to meet his living expenses? Or must he borrow, seek means of economizing, and get himself financially in order? Thank you, gentlemen. Emanuel Schwartz. Sidney H. Rosen. Mr. Erwin Penkin. Your Honor, members of the Board of Estimates, my name is Henry Mayer. I'm appearing in place of my associate, Mr. Erwin Pankin. I appear here on behalf of the Building Maintenance Employers Association, which consists of a group of several hundreds of contractors in the building maintenance field. I'm directing my remarks specifically to that portion of your proposed budget, which deals with the extension of the 3% sales tax to services of this nature. I want to call your attention to the fact that in this instance, it will not be a nuisance tax. It will not be just an irritant or a difficult tax. It will be sufficiently devastating to destroy this industry and destroy thousands of jobs in this industry and unquestionably destroy a trade union relationship which has grown up over a span of years and which is sufficiently stable today to be one that cleaned out what used to be a racket-ridden industry. Now, I'd like to document it in just a few minutes, if I may. These contractors, who are members of this association, perform services for building owners and managers in the city of New York. They supply a variety of window cleaners, porters, scrub women, etc. They have arrangements with these building owners and managers and they lead an existence of jeopardy. The building owners and managers are perfectly willing to employ them only if these contractors can save them some money. The industry itself is so highly competitive that most of these contractors come out with a net return, and this was just submitted to the Office of Price Stabilization within the past few months, of approximately 2.5% to 3.5%. So that the imposition of a sales tax with respect to the services here would mean that their profit would be wiped out. The end result would be that ultimately the building owners and managers, rather than impose this additional cost or assume this additional cost, would render the services themselves, would take it over completely. And the city of New York would not obtain any taxes under those circumstances because then they would be doing the work themselves and doing it directly. With respect to what has happened in this industry, for instance, recently these contractors went to the OPS and asked for permission to pass on increased labor costs. The item of labor costs in this industry is tremendous. It's approximately 90%. The OPS gave that permission. By virtue of the condition in this city, particularly of the soft goods industry, they were unable to pass on that cost. On the 1st of July, the workman's compensation rate for window cleaners in this city will be increased from $1.15 a day to $1.44 a day. You've read in the newspapers and you've heard expressions to the effect that in the state of New York, by virtue of the rise in workman's compensation costs, employers are being driven out of the state or may be driven out of the state. I happen to be legislative counsel for the state CIO. I happen to know that that is not true. But in this particular instance, aside from the question of increased compensation costs, the imposition of the tax that has been suggested here, I repeat, will not drive this industry out of the state of New York. It will drive this industry completely out of business because they couldn't possibly subsist if the net profit that they have will be eaten up entirely by the sales tax. Now on a remote control basis, through the coercive pressure which Governor Dewey is exerting upon this board, if you were to include this item in your budget, you would simply destroy the several hundreds of contractors, most of whom are small businessmen. You will destroy the jobs, you will destroy the trade union relationship that exists because many of these jobs when taken over by the building owners, managers and agents would be transformed into non-union jobs. Now I have a full appreciation of the problems that confront this board. But certainly, you should not simply do something which will destroy your business and not bring you revenue. And in any event, at most, you can obtain possibly $150,000 or close to $200,000 out of this. But even that will not be coming into the funds of the city of New York by virtue of the fact that this business would be taken over completely by those who own and manage the buildings and these contractors would no longer be in business. Now under the circumstances, I would appreciate it greatly if the members of this board would read the written memorandum which I have submitted on behalf of this association. And I'm sure if you have a full appreciation of the end results of the inclusion of this item in your budget, that you would take the position that you would not just destroy an industry and not accomplish the result of obtaining revenue for the city of New York. Thank you very much. May Healy. Mr. Mayor, and members of the Board of Estimates, the Joint Committee of Teachers Organizations, comprised of 66 affiliated professional organizations, represents the great majority of teachers, supervisors, and other educational employees in the city, including the professional staff of the city colleges. you today with deep concern for the welfare of our city's educational system and the morale of those who loyally staff it. The executive budget now before you for consideration has many shortcomings in its educational part. It limits many vital services, does not permit needed expansions, allows a very limited amount for desperately needed school repairs, and last but not least gives no additional salary help to our financially hard-pressed teachers. We realize that you are facing a very difficult time. We also appreciate that the state has not granted you taxing power you asked for, nor has the state given you the proper amount of state aid. Especially has it been derelict in respect to its obligation to provide fair share of state aid for the education to our city. As you know, we asked the state legislature to bring teachers salaries up to somewhere near parity with it within the high cost of living that we are now facing. We asked for a schedule of four thousand to eight thousand with a maximum to be reached in thirteen steps. Such a schedule will have to be adopted sooner or later if we do not meet the challenge that we are now faced with where other communities are paying far greater salaries for far less qualifications. The state legislature has failed us. We sincerely urge you that you not fail us. We respond and respond to our plea that teachers salaries be raised by at least seven hundred dollars now. It has never been our practice to tell the city or state how we think they should raise the money for budgets. This is one time, however, that we feel constrained to speak on the subject. The future looks gloomy and any new or increased taxes will be far from popular no matter where imposed. As teachers, we have watched and read about the many investigations into crime, bookmaking, gambling, and rackets. While such investigations undoubtedly started for political reasons have served to awaken the public to what is going on, they have really stopped, not stopped any of the evils. The big investigation into illegal bookkeeping has dragged on for several years and aside from spotlighting the top names of those engaged in the activity, has not discouraged one bit the day-to-day bookmaking and betting that goes on all over the city and the city. And the state for that matter. It seems to be one form of gambling that no amount of crackdowns, policing, new laws, or expanded enforcement procedures can stamp out or curb. Even the laws of our state take a quasi moral view of betting on horses, horse racing and the like. By making it legal to bet at tracks, but illegal to bet away from tracks, the state accepts revenue from such betting at the tracks with narrow and of the state of the state and the capital. The pari-mutual tax was passed during Governor Dewey's administration and approved by him. But the suggestion to legalize off-track betting and realize the tremendous revenue that would come from it was characterized by the same Governor Dewey as immoral. We believe the time has come when sane, completely sensible attitude should be taken on this subject. We therefore ask the Mayor of the City of New York to appoint a committee of outstanding citizens, persons whom the public respects and has confidence in, to investigate and report on legalizing off-track betting with proper safeguards for the community's protection. The tremendous potential of new revenue that this would make possible both to the state and city should be earmarked for education and hospitals, thus relieving the monies for general purposes and tax reduction. The suggested committee should start as soon as possible. We have a special session of the legislature coming up within the next two months. And if the committee's report can be prepared in time, the legal wheels to implement it can be started at the special session. Even if it is necessary to take a referendum of the voters on the subject, let us at least know what their wishes are. The City of New York, with its 8 million citizens, should be heard at Albany on this matter. And we in education will support it. And from our conversations with parents groups, we know that they will support it. There is plenty of factual detail and data available for the committee. Several of our largest newspapers have editorially sponsored the idea and have large research files on the matter. For many years, the hospitals in Great Britain and Ireland have taken a great deal of their income from financing it by proceeds from sweepstakes tickets. No small number of such tickets have been sold in this city. A great deal of government revenue in the United States and in countries all over the world is derived from man's incurable urge to take a chance with his money. In this day and age, New York City and New York State cannot remain in the pious and slightly hypocritical background and take advantage of this source of revenue, instead of resorting to all the nuisance taxation. Some groups of citizens now bear an inordinate amount of taxation, such as the automobile owners, who have tax after tax after tax piled on and even greater taxation in prospect. Even the city share of the parimutual tax from New York City tracks is being diminished to nothingness by the state. As little as this amount is, what source of revenue is to replace it? Another state suggested nuisance tax? I think it is high time we came of age and faced the financial problems like intelligent adults. That's not a little amount. What's that? That was $12 million a year we were getting. You were, but it's gone down and down and down. Well, it's all been equalized because the state now gets what the part that they took away from us. But they don't give it to us. What? They don't give it to us. They don't give it to us. No. What do you think of that? Isn't that terrible? Well, I think it is. I don't know what you think about it. What do you think I think? I know what you think. You think the same as I do about it. I think it is high time that we did something about it. And we can use this money for the children's educational advantage and for increased hospital facilities and services. I am also sure that the incidents in crime, corruption and bribery will be markedly lowered by this legislation. And those of the general public that like to bet on horse racing will be thankful for lifting from their shoulders the stigma of breaking the law every time they bet away from the tracks. Judge Irving Ben Cooper. Judge Irving Ben Cooper. Good morning, Your Honors. Good morning, Judge. I am indebted to you, Mr. Mayor, for allowing me to speak out of turn. I will only take two minutes, possibly less. Pursuant to Your Honor's request and the Budget Director's request, the budget covering the Court of Special Sessions of the City of New York was kept down to the allowance given to us for 52 and 53. Your Honor recalls that you requested the heads of all departments not to ask for any additions. But I am afraid that unless I place upon the record here a very salient, crucial and vital fact, the inference will be drawn that the amount requested in the Budget for 53-54 for the Court is all that we need. May I then, with great respect, read into the record the letter that I wrote to the Honorable Abraham D. Beam on the date of January 23rd of this year. In transmitting the budget of this Court for 1953 and 4, I have adhered to the requests by His Honor, Mayor M. Pelletary, and yourself, to confine it to the Budgetary Allowance for 1952 and 3. In so doing, however, I must emphasize that my budgetary requests in no way reflect what is imperative for the proper administration of the functions of this Court. Every division of the personnel making up this Court is sorely in need of additional services and salary increases. In effect, we have been hobbling along on crutches for all too long a time. I had hoped that for 1953 and 4, the Budgetary Allowance would be such as to enable us to throw away at least one of the crutches. In view of what I have said on the first paragraph of this letter, we will simply have to continue using both of them until such time as, in your good judgment, we can get rid, we can get the aid we so desperately need. I must add that our present set up not only prevents us from doing the job we should be doing, but is extremely harmful to the best interests of the community. It actually prohibits us from doing the important work of preventing recidivism. I am confident that you are fully aware of the dire consequences that flow from the financial limitations that beset this Court and will do your utmost at the earliest possible time to alleviate the situation. That's the end of the letter and just one more remark and I am through. Your Honors, I do not entertain for a moment the thought that there is a member on this Board who is not aware of how essential it is for the Court of Special Sessions dealing with thousands of young offenders with good moral potential and that you have sufficient probation services and allied facilities. If I thought so, if I thought rather to the contrary, I would hammer away and educate you on it. There is no need for it. Your hearts are in the right place with regard to these young people. All I am saying is, please, as soon as possible, make it available to us those finances that will enable us to be able to provide the resources. that will enable us to have sufficient probation officers so that we will not be turning back into the community these young potential criminals who only come back as a determined offender. Thank you ever so much. Reverend L. Wendell Fifeld. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, I speak here with a certain reluctance today. I am sure that you recognize that this is not the usual setting or scene for my speaking. The immediate reason that I am here is that I have been asked to speak for the New York City Affairs Committee. But there is a deeper reason. And that is that I have a deep love for the city of New York. And I have a deep concern about its present and future condition. There are some simple things that I have always wanted to have a chance to say to someone who could do something about them. And I feel that now is the time and the place. I should like first of all to begin by expressing my sympathy to all of you. My sincere sympathy. First of all for the ordeal through which you have been the last two days and more. But more than that my sympathy in the fact that you have this tremendously difficult problem with which to deal. I suppose there are few financial problems in the United States which have the immensity and the complexity of the problems of the financing of the life of the city of New York. Possibly you will be relieved at this point to know that I do not come to ask for anything. That I do not come to criticize nor to condemn the budget in itself. I am not a financier nor am I an economist. When figures get up above a thousand dollars I am lost. And I make no pretenses of giving advice with regard to those matters. Nor am I a special pleader. For these reasons possibly I can speak for that group of the citizens of New York that seldom appear at a hearing of this sort. Are not vocal because they have nothing to ask for. Except possibly some deeper things to which I should like to refer. And my presence here in itself may remind you of the fact that after all the welfare of all the people of the city of New York should always in your decisions take precedence over the welfare of any special group. Very probably after the last two days of your constant experience with those who have been asking for things. You are saying to yourself well if he does not want anything why is he here? My answer is that I am here for two very simple reasons. Two points that I should like to call to your attention. The first thing it seems to me that might be well is that in the record of this hearing there should be by someone the statement made. That the present budget is not a problem in itself. It is part of a greater problem. It is part of the problem of a great and complex city in a modern world. There is a recurring drama that has taken place ever since I have been in New York City. I think the title of this drama could be The Crisis in New York Finances. It is a recurring drama. The actors change. The script it seems to me remains just about the same. I have noticed if I may say so in all good spirit that quite a little of the script is taken up with the effort to try to find the villain in the drama. Many over the years in which I have been here have located the villain at some distance. As I have read the newspapers and listened to watch television and radio recently, I have come to the conclusion that some think that possibly villains are closer at hand than that. But I want to say to you that the real villain in this concurring and recurring drama is after all the slacking of the moral and spiritual life of this city due to the increasing complexity of its problems, which create an intensification of a materialistic attitude and result in an increased selfishness on the part of groups within our city. Now, I say this may seem a play, but sometime, I'm sure not now, but sometime the collapse is going to come unless we reverse the process. And so the first thing that I wanted to say on behalf of this usually inarticulate group of the citizens of our city is to project into this idea the thought of your opportunity as a board of estimates in dealing with this problem, to set an example of honesty, of patriotism, of loyalty and government, in order that it may be emulated in all of the areas of our organized and private life. The problem of this budget is not an isolated one. It's the problem of the greater problem of seven million people who are trying to live together in decency, integrity and honor in this community. And it should be considered as such. And if you think that I'm preachy at the moment, may I remind you that in his farewell address, George Washington, whose picture hangs in an adjacent room, said this, Morality and religion are the indispensable supports of our political welfare. I should like to have a statement of that sort in the record of this hearing. Now, how does a city seek to thwart this villain of a decline in moral and spiritual values? It does it by beginning somewhere, not by just talking about it or wishing. It does it by beginning. And this brings me to my second point. The best way to lift the level of a city's life is through the example of its leaders. Leaders who display a sense of responsibility toward the interests of the people of the entire city. Leaders who forget all bitterness, even the bitterness which may have led to a crisis. Leaders who rise above any partisan pressure or political considerations. Not only are better able to solve any present critical problem, But they also help in the solution of the long-range problem of the morale of our city, to which I have briefly referred. I realize that if you as a board of estimates exhibit this spirit of genuine public unselfishness about which I'm speaking, you must make decisions that will hurt. I suggest that you be sufficiently free of self-interest to make them even if they hurt you yourselves. Now these pressures that come from special groups in a community are inevitable in our complex life. But the trust, the test of true leadership is that statesmanship which fits these special appeals into the whole structure of a sound city government. In fact, the future of democracy depends upon this kind of statesmanship. For the power of pressure groups and pressure politics can strangle democracy. You are the responsible leaders of our city government. You must bring us through this crisis. You have a tremendous responsibility and opportunity, rightly to interpret your responsibility as public servants. You know, sometimes when going gets hard and problems are upon me, someone puts a hand on my shoulder and says, Best wishes, old man. Do a good job. Now that's what I'm trying to say to this group here today. Do a good job. A fair, frank, fearless job. And when you do, the citizens for whom I speak will have their best wishes with you. A city's life is like a river. There are whirlpools and rapids but also the ongoing current. That's the real river. You have seen much of the whirlpools and the rapids of city life these past few days. But you need not as a group voyage in such waters. As public servants you can voyage in the deep ongoing current of our city's life. A city that is fair. And a city that is fine. A city that is filled with people who wish for themselves and others. The good things which sound and wise government brings. I trust you will not consider it out of place for me to say in closing. God bless and guide you all. For after all our motto, in God we trust, is still true. And that motto is the hope of our city. The hope of our nation. And the hope of our world. I thank you, sir. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Mr. Secretary of the Board of Estimates. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. That's a great振 commission, we make the law firm... Ms. Lauren Cl��制. Master earlier由 내� goedkûter này on children. Ms. Shannon said, This isbau de la Ruhege. Ms. Cassie Brown orpresident... Ms. Charlotte Carr. Ms. Melissaのはedcizus. Ms. Dean chairman doing her power for the international secretary.лив and council member. Ms. Janet mentioned, this does her at your first three-year sign a door. or the Bible. Everybody quotes from it from every side. We hear about it from Albany to prove one thing. We read its next sections of it, Mr. Mayor, to prove another as you report on it. And I wonder, having chart one and chart two, if it might not have been significant to have in the back of the room and facing you a chart three, which are the recommendations of this committee of which the controller has been chairman, of ways and means of balancing the budget, ways and means that have not obviously been considered, or at least have not been adopted in this budget. Now, as an actual fact, today, talking for the Citizens Committee of Children, I want to bring, first of all, our congratulations and appreciation for the position that this budget has taken on the saving of the Child Welfare Center. I think that was done for three reasons. One, we all understand the Child Welfare Center purpose. Two, we've had a perfectly marvelous reaction from the public for the protection and the continuation of this service. Three, the Board of Estimate does, in fact, see and understand that the maintenance of that service keeps people off relief, keeps children off of expensive foster care. It's a good and important service and ought to be kept. I think we understand it because it is one program, clearly defined, and we all know what the Child Welfare Centers are. There are a few places, though, members of the Board of Estimate, that as equally needed services are not being kept. And I think, in all honesty, because you yourself have not had the opportunity of knowing how important these services are. There is a little service. And I'm talking now about the Health Department. And I'm talking about an item as low as $13,000 a year. There is what has been known as the daycare unit in the Health Department, which should more properly be called the Child Welfare Licensing Service in the Department of Health. And this is the service that licenses and enforces the standards, and has for a 10-year period of the Department of Health as it relates to other daycare services throughout the city, of which there are more than 400. Services that are largely fee-charging and commercial services. Services that are very good or very second rate or even dangerous, depending upon the people who run them. Now, it's just as important that all of the services should be inspected as it is important that you have factory inspectors, that you have tenement house inspectors, of which you incidentally don't have quite enough. But this service, to be continued, means that for the children under six, and there's 6,000 or more of these children, not including the children in the Child Welfare Centers, which can be adequately supervised under a good standard through the Department of Welfare. How does this happen? It's an illustration that I want to make, not only because this one service is so important. The money that's saved is so slight that I am morally sure it's going to be adjusted. But it was done by the elimination of three provisionals and the elimination of the line for the three provisionals in the health department budget. Now, this wholesale elimination of something on the title provisionals can do an awful lot of harm to an awful lot of very important city services. We want accredited civil service people, and we want them held if the civil service can make the examination for them. And if, I mean, we're not questioning that, but where an examination hasn't yet been held, where people are taking the job as provisionals, waiting for an examination, then we say, to eliminate those jobs as important city services, where they are important in city services, simply under a kind of a blanket, we will wipe out provisionals, is one of the great big arguments that we have always had. And the Mayor's Management Survey Committee has always felt was so important that we have program budgets, that we, in fact, know what we're cutting. Now, just as you knew in the child welfare service, the daycare service, what you would be cutting, and what the cost of it, you can't be expected to know what it means to cut $13,000 on the unit that is inspecting, that is keeping the decent standards and up to standards, the commercial and the non-commercial places that we have where children under six years of age are living. That I feel confident you want to do. That I'm betting on, that $13,000. But under the same reason of eliminating of the provisionals in the Department of Health, you take away your district health officers at a time and at places that are appallingly hard to understand. Mr. Cashmore, why would you want out in Brooklyn for Bedford, Bedford Stuyvesant, for Red Hook, for, I forget the, Bedford Stuyvesant, Red Hook, Flatbush, will be without a district health director? What about Central Harlem in Manhattan without a district director? Harlem and Bedford Stuyvesant, as you know, are the two districts perhaps in the city greater than anyone else in need of public health services. Why would, what are we going to do about the elimination of the health leadership in the Astoria district in Queens? This is a comparatively small matter, a small item, and comes from, I think, no desire to eliminate these services, but an easy desire to eliminate provisional people. Why are they provisional? Because your salaries have been so low. We haven't gotten the people up to the standards or the health department hasn't lowered their standards. Who could do, would take the job in terms of getting the examination? And so to fill a vacancy, these people have come in as provisional, and as such will be dropped. Now I'd like to make my point that you cannot, in city service today, do what I can understand would be the easy way to do it. Let's wipe out provisional. All right? Another little thing that seems as though we thought would make life simpler. And I'm looking at some of the budget people about whom I have discussed this in person a number of times. Another nice easy way would seem to be let's wipe out doctor sessions. All right? We wipe out 500 of them in the health department. And for whom? In God's name, you wipe out 500 doctor sessions of three hours each for the crippled children of the city of New York. And what are you going to do? They've had a long waiting list. Are you going to say your cardiac children, well, you don't need those tests for them? All right, you're going to put one child, because somebody has had an idea that it's a cardiac, you're going to give the city service having that child brought by bus to the schools, marked as a health problem. Maybe marked wrong, because perhaps that child honestly isn't a cardiac case. But somebody said it was. There was no way to check it. You haven't the sessions available. But if he is a cardiac, and you don't have that examination, and you send him to the school in the regular way, at the subways and so forth, and that child's health is permanently affected, you see the difficulty. Either one way or another, if the child isn't a cardiac, and yet it may get all this expensive carting service from the city, special classes and whatnot, or if he is a cardiac, and we don't know it, and he doesn't get that special service. Is that worth the silly, a little amount of money that you do because the sessions are cut up? And I know why they were cut out. They were cut out because they didn't last year get all of them filled. Why didn't they get them filled? And here's one of the questions I keep saying. How did this thing happen? And would you agree to it if you knew it? Do you know that the specialists for adult service in the health department are paid $17 for a three-hour session? And do you know that the specialists for the children's service are paid $11 for the three-hour service? Is there any reason for that? I suppose the reason comes in the fact that the other service got first. I don't know what it is. But explain if you can. I can't. Other than just to guess why it is that we pay less money for the specialist services, for the most important job we have, that of the care of children, than we pay for the cardiac, pediatrician, eyes, ears, nose. I wouldn't dream of giving those names because I always mix them up, of the specialists for the adults. Now, I have another point I want to make in the health department. It comes to the schools. We've asked, or the Commissioner of Health asked, for more money for the supervision of the work of the health services in the public schools. That was for the supervisory work, which made it possible, really, to organize the doctor, the nurses, the time schedule, and so forth, so that you weren't wasting the money that you actually were spending. All of the supervising requests were wiped out. You know, you heard Dr. Jensen say yesterday, there are 25,000 more children, little children, coming in to our school this year. We asked for an increase in the health service. We asked for that supervisory work. That item was cut out. It was a 10,000 item. There's one more item. And then I think of in the health department, and I will tell you, and I hope you will let me, and hope you will let our committee discuss with you item by item as we have worked this out, starting first with the checking with Mr. Beam, who may find us in error here and there. And why anybody wouldn't be in error in some of these places analyzing this budget at this time, I don't know. But it's an error on the right side, and we'll check first with Mr. Beam. If he agrees with the facts as we present them to you, I am perfectly confident that you will want to make those changes in the budget. A saving of $50,000 in the health department would cover the items that I have mentioned, except one I want to bring up in a minute. And it's also, and that's another pitiful thing about this, you see Albany, by giving us so little money, gets more money than they even anticipate. Because when we save $50,000 in the health department, the Albany gets $35,000 from the health department. So we're giving Albany $35,000 by saving ourselves $50,000. And I've listed these items as a particular concern to me from the health service. And I'm just adding one more because I want to attach it to a service that's also in the welfare department. Friends, it would, I laugh. Maybe you don't think it's funny. But really, this budget has no teeth in it. You've just ripped the dental service. You have, you've taken, you've taken the cut in sessions in the dental service, in the health department. And you've cut 80,000 dental sessions in the welfare department. Now, as some of you may know, I know that welfare department service fairly well. I know what's involved because I have been the director of the welfare department in the days we called it the emergency relief bureau. I know well that the purpose in the welfare department and in home relief is to get people off relief. Now, that's the way to save money, isn't it? Do you get people off the relief? And again, I'm out of the children's field, but I just have to mention this. We have a contract in the welfare department for $9 for a set of dentures for an older person who might, by the, by having these dentures, become employable. Isn't that fundamental? The denture work, the dental work that is needed for children who are on relief is very important to their getting their working papers. What sense does it make? And one of the finest services in this city is a dental service in your, um, in your welfare department. I don't know what's happened to the dental organized groups. I know that the AMA would have jumped on us hard if we'd made some of these changes in cutting of, of the, uh, sessions of the doctor services. But it's a serious thing when the dental sessions are cut out from the welfare department, which applies to the men, women, and children on relief. It's a serious thing when the dental services are limited in the health department, which apply to the services of the children of, uh, 12, uh, under 12. Now, you also have a, a dental service in the hospital department for the extractions. I, I can't find that you've eliminated that. Uh, uh, maybe Mr. Beam can tell me whether you did or not. But if we're pulling teeth instead of, uh, fixing the dentures, and not, instead of really making the, uh, rehabilitation, uh, that is needed for the people who you want to be, uh, made self-supporting, we are not really saving money. It's hard to talk on, uh, uh, without awareness of the effect that this budget has on children's services in this city, and not mention the magistrate's court. Do you know that you have no probation officers at all for your youth term in the magistrate's court? Do you know that you have no probation officers for the narcotic term? It sounds fine. What good is it without the follow-up work that is done through the probation services? I heard Judge Irving Van Cooper make his report, uh, on the special sessions. The probation service is the preventive service that makes it possible to get the people, not in our expensive institutions, but back in their homes, back on the straight line if possible. And certainly that chance, that opportunity, ought not only to give them as human beings and citizens of New York, but ought to be given to us as the more economical way for the caring, uh, forum, uh, the city affairs. Now, hospitals. It is such a long story. You remember Dr. Kogel's statement last, uh, uh, last time he testified of his fear of what might happen without the increase in the health in the hospital service. Uh, have you had the chance to read the five volumes on health, uh, on the hospital services that the mayor's management survey gave? Do you realize the ways that there could be savings in the hospital service if we really took them seriously? But is one way to save a diagnostic clinic which makes it possible for the applicant to go to the clinic, get his x-rays, get all the works, as it were, and not be a patient in the city hospital at $12 a day while it's getting done? We ask for that. The hospital service asks for that. That's $100,000. I've been talking about $13,000 here, $15,000 there, and a sum up of, uh, under $50,000 that I was really discussing before. This, in the terms of the things that we're tremendously concerned about, is, is a larger item. But is it a larger item in terms of the savings that could come from a diagnostic clinic so that away from the hospital, away from hospital, where you have to use the bed, feed the patient, nurse the patient, to have these services done in the homes, and, uh, done, therefore, more cheaply? Now, these are my points. I think that when the time comes, and I believe Mr. Beam agrees with me that the time has to come, when we have really program budgets, when you know, all right, this is what it is, this is what we did last year, this is the purpose of the service, we're either cutting it, dropping it, or raising it, depending on your considered value of what the, uh, purpose of the thing really means. I can't give you that story for the city budget. I don't know it for the city budget. But I know, and my committee knows it, for special services for the group that I really think you'd all agree had priority, the services for children. And we feel that if you will let us give you, clearing with Mr. Beam, these tables, these reports, as we find it in the budget, I'll take Mr. Beam's word for it, whether we set it, uh, set it up right or not, because I know, uh, not only of his integrity, but his accuracy. But I don't take Mr. Beam's word for it in terms of, is this valuable, or isn't it a valuable service? That's where it seems to me the Board of Estimates has to come in. That, I think, is your judgment. Are you going to say these things are not important, or are they important? And that's why I would hope that you'd have an opportunity to review the budget in terms of these items. And again, putting on the hat of a member of the mayor's survey committee, uh, it's been a good time in New York City. We're not so poverty-stricken. We, we, uh, it's a grand city. I didn't know I'd live to quote Bob Moses, but I will. It's a grand city. And, and, and don't let's be so poor a mouth about it. I don't like your plan one on the budget. I don't like your plan two. I don't agree that we should have the, uh, take the transit authority plan at all. I don't think it's necessary. I think we should fight it. There I agree with the statement that I have read in the paper, with the statement of the controller Joseph's, uh, position on it. We must get other ways to balance our budget. We must tell our story to Albany again and again. And if we have to do it on a political line, okay, we'll do it. But we spent $2 million on a study that told us how we could make some of these savings. We may be right in some areas. We may be not so right in others. But on the main report in which Mr. Beam, your budget director, has put his vote, if we're wrong in those votes, in terms of your own administrative policy of how to balance a budget, then I should be very much surprised. And thank you very much. Uh, . Daniel M. Kelly. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimate, as a member of the Assembly of the State of New York, representing the 7th Assembly District of New York County, I felt that it would be necessary for me to come down here today due to the fact that the state problem is so intertwined with the budget that is before you gentlemen. Now, I know that all of you gentlemen spent at least one day in Albany during the past session, and many of you, including his honor the mayor, spent many days there. And I think you'll all agree with me that the days that you spent there were indeed frustrating ones. And I expect you to sympathize with me because, believe me, I've not only spent days there but three frustrating years. And I say frustrating due particularly to the manner in which the State of New York has handled the problems that affect the city of New York. And this year, without going into detail on the problem because that has been well covered here, it was particularly revolting. And even when we got into a nonpolitical subject that might affect the city of New York, and I'm referring to a committee to look into the question of whether or not a city manager plan might be feasible or might help. Now, gentlemen, I have no idea whether such a plan would work in the city of New York. But I think we'd all be happy to let a nonpolitical commission look into it and report back to us and tell us what would happen. But I was forced in good conscience to even vote against that bill in Albany because the first two paragraphs of that bill, a bill that has become law, were written with the acid pen of the governor and, in fact, blamed all of the financial problems of the city on politics. And, in fact, indirectly on the members of the Board of Estimates. So that with that insincere approach, I found that even on a nonpolitical matter, it would be impossible to go along. You mean, Mr. Senator, that they play politics in the public? Mr. Senator, I agree with you 100 percent on that. But to go on just a little bit, Mr. Controller, you know, there was one place where you might say that possibly they tried to be nonpolitical, that is, assuming for a moment the merit of a transit authority, which I do not assume. But taking that assumption for a moment, you know, they set up there what looked to be a nonpolitical commission. Really, the membership of it couldn't be accused of politics. But the difficulty is, that is the proposed membership, but the difficulty is that if you do away with the thought that the subway must be subsidized, and I personally think that it must, in all fairness to the residents of the city, if you do away with that thought, no group of men, regardless of how nonpolitical they could be, could come up with any solution, except one that would necessarily raise the fare. So, lo and behold, the governor knows that if such an authority is created, the fare will be raised, and he hopes to make political capital of it. So, in that instance, you have your alleged nonpolitical approach as to the membership only. But going along from that for a moment, I want to point out, and I want to compliment Your Honor the Mayor on your statements of going to Albany this year at the special session, and urging again and again that something be done. But you and I know, and the members of this board know, that we have a real problem there, because of the fact that there's only one person who decides what a special session will deal with. And that, of course, is the governor of this state. Let me say first, that should the Corporation Council of the City of New York be successful in opposing the transit authority, let me predict, gentlemen, that then you will have no alternative but to adopt this austerity budget, and let me tell you the governor will backtrack so fast, your heads and my heads will be swimming. I predict that if the Corporation Council is successful, that there will be a special session and a necessary change of tune on behalf of the governor of this state. But after all, we can't rely on that approach, and it's a very sorrowful one, and a very droll one, to have to create, so to speak, directly or indirectly, a crisis in the city of New York. Payless paydays and all that sort of thing. I'm afraid to have to have a horrible thought to even contemplate, to have to do something like that to force the governor's hand. But I'm afraid that, in my opinion, that's the only way that the governor might actually be forced to handle it. Unless, you gentlemen, in your good judgment, will seriously consider another suggestion that I very respectfully and humbly would like to make to you. You know, ever since I've been a little child, I remember people kicking around the question of state aid to the city of New York. And while I have vehement feelings on it, as most of you gentlemen do, in feeling that the city of New York is being shortchanged and so on and so forth, it does not accomplish the necessary purpose. To have the governor come on the air one night. And I say, gentlemen, with the way he handled, for example, the Hague-Shoop report would imply to me that he's nothing but a political rogue. Because I think, frankly, that he'd do anything for a vote. And to let him get up there and misrepresent the situation on television, and then to have your honor and other members of the board appear on radio and television and present what to me are the true facts, unfortunately does not solve the problem. Now, to get down to the point, for two years in the assembly, and I tried in the first year and I was denied permission, I have introduced a bill which seeks to take this question of state aid out of politics. It seeks to create a non-political commission. There'd be five members appointed by your honor by the mayor of the city of New York, and five members by the governor of the state of New York. There are particular qualifications for three members that would be appointed by your honor and by the governor under my bill. One would be an outstanding businessman. One would be an outstanding representative of labor. One would be an outstanding economist. No particular qualifications for the other two. But one important qualification for all, and that is that they not be employees. They not be employees, officials or anything else, of the federal, state, or city governments. The governor, as I say, would appoint five, and your honor would appoint five. The governor would appoint the chairman, and your honor would appoint the vice chairman. This non-political commission, and it would be the first of its type, would look into two things. They'd look first into the question of state aid and have the right to subpoena and get the necessary books and records. And in that regard, let me point out the letter that the state controller sent to the budget director of the city of New York, from which your honor quoted on television and radio the other night, where the state controller in effect said that they did not have the information that they could furnish this city as to the origin of certain taxes. I submit, your honor, that they don't want to furnish it. Maybe they don't have it. But it seems to me that they could have it, and that they should have it. And the very evidence that we need to prove our case is therefore, so to speak, missing from the file, or at least some of the evidence we need. So I say, why not support this plan or something like it and see what we can do with it? This year, $500,000 was appropriated by the state of New York for a wider study. It would look into the state fiscal relationships of all the municipalities. And after my bill had been defeated, I looked into the composition of this, of the membership of this committee. And to me, it was just like throwing $500,000 down the drain, because it had the same old political flavor. Assemblymen and senators and appointees of the governor. And as I said on the floor, if I were to be appointed to this commission, and believe me, your honor, there is no possibility of that. But I said that should I be appointed to such a commission, that I would decline. Because in good faith, I could not serve with an open mind. Because I have certain feelings with reference to the manner in which the state treats the city. And therefore, I claim that it's utterly ridiculous to have this sort of commission. But to get back to the... And I offered an amendment on that bill in the legislature to substitute the non-political membership. And the Democratic Party voted for it. I got complete support this year, I'm happy to say, from the Democratic Party, which was not true in the past from my own party. And what happened there is an example of wasting $500,000. Now, this commission that I have advocated would look first into the question of state aid. And then they would have the right to look into enabling tax legislation if necessary. And suggest whatever they might deem would be appropriate. Why not take some of the outstanding members of the community? In other words, just to mention a few. Possibly a gentleman of the eminence of Bernard Baruch would be willing to devote some time to a problem such as this. Possibly a Rockefeller representing business might be willing. How about some of these fellows who've been yelling and who do nothing but oppose without offering any constructive suggestions? What about Mr. Hoving? He's not in town. What's that, Your Honor? He's not available. He's not in town. I see. He's one of the men that I was considering for appointment to the transit authority. I think that you can congratulate my people in the city if you made that appointment. But I have to make the appointment if I exercise my right under the law. By next Monday, that's April 20th. And I find that Mr. Hoving is over in Europe on a six week vacation. Otherwise, I intended to tender him an opportunity to serve on that transit authority and to try to demonstrate to the people in the city of New York his ability to manage city government a little better than he manages private business. I just mentioned these names, Your Honor, as illustrations of some of the things that might be done. And then, if such a commission were created and if they come back with a report that we were or were not entitled to more state aid, we'd all have to respect it. And it would be better than carrying on this political football game that's been going on in the state and city of New York for as many years as I can remember. So, in conclusion, I want to say this, that the idea that I have espoused is not all my own, but I ask you to consider it for two reasons. First of all, when you advance a proposition and ask the governor to consider the problem at the special session, you have to have a suggestion that will stand up and one that will carry the proper publicity. And I think that a few gentlemen would support mine. You don't have to call it mine. Any one of you are invited to take it and not refer to me at all. But I think that if the membership of this board would support such an idea that it would force the governor to call a special session based on that premise. And I'm going to take the liberty of sending you each a copy of the bill, which I have introduced, and let you try to work it out from there. And as I say, any one of you can have it. And I'm not looking for any indirect publicity on the approach. And I do want to say, however, in all fairness, that I didn't work it out all alone, that it was introduced this year by Senator Archibald and myself and that Mr. Robert B. Blakey had a great deal to do with me in working it out. Now the fact that some of you may possibly disagree with me or with someone else on other political problems should not stand in the way at all here of a united front. As I say, the idea is being offered and it's yours. But let's get behind something that we can force the governor to call a special session on and really accomplish something useful. Thank you very much for your kind attention. Kelly, before you sit down, you mentioned the fact that legislation had been passed for the creation of a commission to examine into and study the advisability of the city manager plan for the city of New York. That's correct? That's right, Your Honor. That commission has not been appointed yet? That is correct. Did you listen to Governor Dewey about a week ago? I did, Your Honor. Did you hear at that time, in advance of the appointment of this committee, to study and report back, that the governor advocated the city manager plan? That is my understanding. Well, I heard the program and my understanding also, and I wanted to have it confirmed, was whether or not that commission has yet come in the being. As far as I know, Your Honor, it has not. But the reason, as I said before, that I had a vote against it, to even consider the study, was because of the political overtones in the bill and his attempt to blame this board. Thank you. But no bill created a state manager plan, was it? No, as a matter of fact, I suggested that. I said that it would be a very good idea, due to the manner in which the state budget had raised over the years, that we create an impartial commission to look into these. But it would be so much more than the cities, it would seem to be sound and fair. I think you have a very fine point there. I think that the matter should be studied. I think that any of these things should be studied, so that we can find out the best thing to do. And as a matter of fact, I suggested it. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Harold Wigelman. Harold Wigelman. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, this would normally be one of the last steps toward the adoption of the budget. Certainly, in my memory, I know no budget that has been subjected to more searching debate than this budget has been. And one might assume from that, I suppose, that all of the problems have been solved. But of course, there are many questions that are not answered. And I suppose it would take a clairvoyant to figure out what the answers are at this stage of the game. There are so many things that can happen. The developments within the next few days will completely change, or may completely change, the budgetary picture. And I would like to pay the mayor the compliment of saying that I think it was very wise on his part to present in advance alternatives contingent upon the unavailability of a transit authority or the unavailability of additional real estate taxes. The Citizens Budget Commission, for which I speak, has watched the evolution of this struggle. The debate has engendered a great deal of fog, as one would naturally expect. But we see light through this fog, and we see hope. We see hope in the experimental start contained in this budget toward a program budget. It's a beginning. And it's a good thing. We believe that the program budget idea will prove its value as we come better to understand the technique of program budgets, and we select more essential data, organize it, and present it. We think there's great hope in the budding sign of progress toward a classification and pay plan. We're encouraged even by this initial and tentative acceptance of the principle of this great reform. We see traces of influence of the mayor's committee and its consultants in the policies discussed by the mayor in the executive budget. And we think it's a step forward. That these recommendations are receiving some consideration. And that there's an indication that some of them will be adopted to some degree. And we think it very good that this budget, which is really unique in this respect, is not the vehicle for the demand for a great miscellany of irritating and burdensome taxes. Altogether, we are aware that there is a wider acceptance of vital management principles than there was a year ago. We wish we could be sure that those principles would be fully applied, but any judgment with respect to that, of course, must await the result of specific performance. The mayor has expressed some fear that harm may result from some of the economies which he has proposed. And I would like to suggest that these dreadful results need not occur if the economies are properly affected. The course for affecting those economies has been pretty clearly charted by the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey. They've indicated that those economies could be adopted not only without impairing essential services, but in many instances with the improvement of essential services. There's an example, for instance. The mayor has indicated that he's going to have to drop 500 positions or not fill 500 vacancies in the police department. And when we read that recommendation, we also note the recommendation or the statement by the consultant to the mayor's committee that there are 2,600 police officers who are either improperly assigned or assigned to unnecessary work. Now, aside from the compulsion which results in not filling 500 vacancies, we know that if the consultant is correct, those 2,600 men would be available for frontline police duty. Certainly, they are a reservoir from which the 500 can be taken without impairing police service. The fact of the matter is that there are 2 ways in which all of these economies can be made. One is the one which the mayor very properly described as the meat axe or butcher method, and the other is to put them into effect as an efficiency measure. One is the one which the 500 vacancies can be handled in such a way as to reduce police protection. They can also be handled in such a way that they will not hurt the police service. The difference, of course, in these 2 ways of handling economies is the difference between good management and incompetence. The management ability, I think, will be tested by the way in which these economies are put into effect. Now, there's another roadblock to efficient administration, and that's the group of public officials who, when any economy is suggested that doesn't aggregate more than $100,000, say, well, that's just peanuts. These officials forget that the smallest leak can sink the largest ship. We would like to recommend that the city adopt a save-a-penny week, and we would like to nominate, as an example of that philosophy, the hospital detail of the fire department. Now, we agree that nothing is too good for the men who are engaged, particularly in the hazardous services of the city, but that's no excuse for an outright waste. The management committee, the mayor's management committee, found that there are 24 firemen assigned to three hospitals whose primary responsibility it was to look after injured firemen that might come into those hospitals. On an on-the-spot check, they found that 10 firemen were so assigned to look after four injured firemen in one hospital, and in another hospital, seven firemen were on continuous duty to look after 11 firemen who were in and out of that hospital during a period of seven months. The mayor's committee found that 12 firemen would be quite sufficient to take care of all of the duties performed by the 24 that are presently assigned to that work. Well, that would be a saving of about $50,000. And that's a peanut. And it takes just 30,000 peanuts like that to make up a budget of a billion and a half dollars. This budget promises some very substantial economies. I regret that these economies appear to have been the result of compulsion. I would have wished that better service through better management had been the spontaneous and inspired expression of will on the part of the administration. The vital importance of the will to economize and the will to efficiency is really the central thesis of the statement that I am leaving with the Board of Estimate. It's much too long to give orally and I'm not going to try to give it orally. But it does emphasize, I think, that the one essential feature of good management, which is the will to initiate and establish and maintain good management, has been conspicuously absent up to now. and that it isn't too late to bring it into the picture and that it must be brought into the picture if either this budget or any other balanced budget is going to be workable. The statement analyzes the forces which are tending toward better management in the city of New York with particular reference to the work of the Mayor's Committee on management survey. It makes two main, four main points which I will simply describe without discussing. The first is that the stated objective of the committee and one of the main objectives of the committee, namely to make a study of efficiency and economy, was balked in the course of the two years or two and a half years that the committee was in existence. The proof of that is not only in the statement that I'm leaving with you but also in Appendix C which is annexed to the final report of the committee. Secondly, that in spite of the opposition of a number of members of the committee who hold city office, a number of practicable and desirable economies, a great number, were urged, recommended, and these in turn paved the way to still other economies and methods of improving the management of the city to a total which we estimate at $80 million which is partly overlapped by the $39,800,000 of economies already included in the executive budget. The third point which is emphasized by the report is that the attitude of the city of the city to most of these proposals has been hostile and obstructive. The attitude has been arrogant, argumentative, and antagonistic. and that too was proved by chapter and verse. And the final point of the long statement is that a great many of these economies were advocated a long time ago and have now been endorsed by the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey. and if these reforms and economies and savings had not been obstructed and that too was proved by chapter and verse. And the final point of the long statement is that a great many of these economies were advocated a long time ago and have now been endorsed by the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey. And if these reforms and economies and savings had not been obstructed and delayed as they have been, we today would not be confronted by a budget of a billion and a half. Now this entire executive budget of course is a crystal ball into which only a mind reader can gaze and be satisfied that he sees anything very definite and that isn't said in criticism at all. We have litigation with respect to the transit authority and it might invalidate that solution. That's a possibility. Or indecision may prevent that solution. We might not have the benefit of the additional real estate taxes. we can't judge at this stage of the game how well the economies will actually be administered. Then further uncertainty is added by the fact that the record of this administration in the field of management has not been a record of resolution and consistency. I think it can never be emphasized or repeated too often that the controlling factor in this picture is the will to economize. The mayor has said that as recently as last January that he can't economize without slashing services. We believe that the will to economize without slashing services is not there and where there is no will there can be no way. The Citizens Budget Commission after the most careful and sympathetic study of this situation believes that more economies can be secured along the lines advocated by the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey and that it would be possible to get along with taxes that additional taxes somewhat less in amount than the taxes contemplated by this executive budget. Colonel I was wondering whether your Citizens Budget Commission has ever gone into the comparisons between economies that you say should be made here in the city of New York as compared with the big difference in the rise of the operation of the state government. For instance, during this 10-year spiraling period, our expenses have gone up approximately 96%. And during the same period of time, the state budget for state purposes has gone up 163%. And have you examined into the fact that during that same period of time, we've only increased our employee personnel by 20% and the state has increased its personnel by 76% and that's by a report of the State Civil Service Commission reported in New York Times. Mr. Mayor, my primary interest, as you know, is not the state budget, but when you mentioned those figures originally some a week or so ago, I guess, I did look into the situation. And I think the basic figure is one that we must disagree on. If you eliminate the transfers in the state budget to capital expenditures, and of course you eliminate state aid, the balance left for state purposes shows an increase of 115% and not 163% as compared with the smaller increase in the city budget amounting to 96% over the period that you've mentioned. Now, I think in all fairness to the state, and I do not appear here as an apologist for the state or as a defender of the state, that difference, which is not very great in the increases of the two budgets, could be accounted for, I say could be statistically accounted for, by the greater increase in the population of the state as a whole, than the increase in the population of the city of New York, the ratio is 10 to 6. However, I think that you've also got to give, I think you've also got to give some consideration to the greatly expanded services. I'll just take two at the top of the list. The first is in the field of mental health hospitals, mental hygiene hospitals, in which there has been a prodigious growth in the quantity of the service during the past 10 years. And the second one on the list is education, which includes a new state university, two new and very badly needed medical schools, and five new technical schools. Now, in the field of mental health, the appropriations by the state, the expenditures by the state in the last 10 years have nearly tripled. And in the field of education, the expenditures of the state have more than tripled. And you'll find this expansion of service running right through the state budget, and a very heartening thing it is to see. I have heard Governor Dewey call a great many names, and I've heard the state call a great many names, but I don't think I have ever heard even the most hostile critic say that the state was uneconomical or inefficient or wasteful in its administration. And I don't think that the friendliest critic of the city would hesitate in all fairness to say that economy and efficiency have, for one reason or another, not been the outstanding characteristics of the city administration. administration. So you see, we sort of disagree on basic figures, Mr. Mayor. Don't you realize that we have expanded our facilities? Now you talk about hospitals. You take here in the city of New York, we have underway an expansion and building program in the city of New York that's costing the city of New York $190 million. dollars. And when those facilities are built, they have to be manned, they have to be staffed, and our expenses have gone up just the same as the state's. I don't see how in good conscience the argument can be made or even in good grace that where you can see that the state's budget has gone up much higher percentage-wise than ours, that in taking the state's operation, that that's efficiency. With reference to the city, it's inefficient. I just don't understand it. No, no, no, Mr. Mayor. I would never use the comparison as a basis for saying that the city was inefficient. I think the comparison leaves out so many factors that it ceases to have any validity. I didn't use the comparison, you did. And there's one other point that I think should be made. You're comparing today's state budget with a pretty tight budget of 10 years ago. Actually, the present budget of the city of New York, you compare with a budget which at the time it was adopted was demonstrably $15 million greater than it should have been. And the items that make up the $15 million are items that you, Mr. Mayor, would agree with. You had no responsibility for it, and neither did your predecessing. So what you're really doing is comparing a budget today with a budget 10 years ago that was already $15 million higher than it should have been. I think the state budget 10 years ago was a pretty tight one, as I remember it. But, Mr. Mayor, I'm not saying that because the city budget is 96% greater than it was 10 years ago, or 100%, which I think is more nearly correct, that that is evidence that the city is inefficient or uneconomical or wasteful. It's true the budget has gone up greatly. It's true also that we've had inflation. And it's true also that we've had an increase in our population. The fact of the matter is that if you combine the increase of population with the inflation, as reported by the federal, covered by the federal statistics, the increase in our budget is 30% higher than the combined increase in inflation and population. Now, that in itself is not necessarily a sign of inefficiency. If the city is providing better service, or more necessary services than 10 years ago, this budget could be two or three times as large as the budget 10 years ago and still be a sound budget. I just don't think that the services, which the city is rendering today, are very much better than they were 10 years ago. But that's what makes horse races. There can be a reasonable difference of opinion in that respect. Colonel, you started off giving us an anesthetic and then you applied the scalpel. I always believe in saying what good I can, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Controller. And then to go on and continue to speak the truth even though it might occur. You are sentenced to die in the electric chair and God have mercy on your soul. Where is this $80 million you say? You say that could be saved? You could save this year $80 million? Well, it isn't $80 million in addition to the $39,800,000 that the mayor proposes to save. They're partly overlapping. You'll find it all in the blue covered statement that you have. If you can find me where they said you can save $80 million this year, I'll buy you a hat. Well, let me say this. They've given a lot of different figures, Mr. Controller, just like the mayor and you and Mr. Halley have given different figures. But I want to say this. In all fairness to your committee. Colonel, wait a minute. I don't say that. I don't know what figure the other is. Well, I'll make that perfectly plain. I'll give, I gave a figure, for instance, on the amount that the city of New York pays to the state. The figure that I gave originally is about 56, 57 percent. I don't believe it, but it was the director of the budget of the state of New York that gave that figure back in 40, 47 or 48. I'm sorry if you misunderstood me. When I said different figures, I didn't mean that there was any, I didn't mean any unfortunate implication. The mayor had said, I think, in January there couldn't be any economies. You'd said that economies of at least 20 million. I never said that, Colonel, at any time. Well, I'm delighted to hear it. I never said that. As a matter of fact, if you'll read the report that I'm releasing tomorrow, you'll find that this city, within a period of less than three to four years, has actually affected economies either by direct economies or by added revenues that total $48 million. Well, that's wonderful. I'd like to see that report because I think that might be very encouraging. No, when I said difference in figures, you said that there could be at least 20 million in economies affected, and Mr. Halley said at least 75 million. This $80 million, Mr. Controller, is not the estimate by the mayor's committee. It's the estimate which the Citizens' Budget Commission has very conservatively made of the various economies and efficiency measures advocated by the mayor's committee, of which you are chairman and of which you have been a very valuable member. Thank you. Colonel, what are these two new schools that the State University built? These two new medical schools. Oh, Lord. Now you ask me where they are, and I can't tell you. One is in Brooklyn, and I'll tell you. One is in Brooklyn, and one is in Rochester. You're both wrong. Syracuse. You're both wrong. First of all, they never built two new medical schools. No. Well, I... Now, wait a minute. They took over Long Island, and they took over Syracuse. Now, Mr. Controller, I hate to disagree with you. What you say is partly correct. They have taken over Long Island College of Medicine. They've also taken over the institution up in Syracuse. That's right. But the fact is that in addition to taking over, they are building new colleges because only three days ago, I attended the groundbreaking ceremony. I thought the two new medical schools were built already. You've got troubles of your own without going into that. It's 10 years ago since I advocated something being done. I think the total substance of what happened so far is the addition of a few students in Syracuse and a few students in Long Island Medical. I don't think that the expenses were too great there. Mr. Reagan, I noticed your report, and I just heard you compliment the controller. I'm sure you meant it. But I noticed on the third page there, you talk of the fact that the committee was overloaded with city officials who interfered with the work of the committee. Now, was the controller the only exception? All the other officials interfered? Let me say this. The controller was the chairman. He conducted himself like you would expect a chairman to conduct himself. There were six city officials altogether on the committee out of a total of 30, not five, Mr. Mayor. And there were, in addition, four former city officials whose psychology quite apparently hadn't changed by the reason that they became X. And on top of that, there were a half a dozen good citizens. And I'm not suggesting that any of these men were not conscientious and sincere. But there are half a dozen people who were not city officials who held honorary posts in one department or another. And I think perhaps had an inclination to see some of these issues a little bit more from the official side than from the other side. Moreover, these people that I'm talking about, I think, were perhaps a little more regular in their attendance than some of the, what I might call the unofficial group. Certainly, they very heavily weighted the... Which category did you put Commissioner Moses in? Oh, I'd regard Commissioner Moses. I think almost his worst enemy would regard him even as a public official. And he certainly is one of my very close friends. I'll credit him with being not only a public official, but a damn good public official. He's not one of the officials who involved and exerted a fragment of as much energy in pressing for economy as they did in evading it. The economies would have been affected by now. I'm not at all sure that Bob Moses was very helpful in that. I think Bob was on the obstructive side. I regret to say that. Well, I think if you break him down and mention names... I don't want to mention names, really. You've been exempted too so far. If I went down the list, maybe you'll have them on. I'm not going to mention any more names. Bob's used to being called names, so I don't mind mentioning him. So far as the city officials that were on there, while I didn't vote on a lot of these things because it must come before the Board of Estates, let me tell you that they contributed a great deal. And in some of the minority reports, I think they were right. Well, I think probably all of the minority reports were right. I noticed in previous years, you gave us a breakdown of items. I mean, this is generalities. I mean, you quote in here, chiefly on the report of the committee. You don't break it down. You generally come in and say you were going to save so many million dollars. I can't get any total figure. And I can't find in here one of your pet hates, the abolition of WNYC. I don't see that in here. Have you changed your mind on that, Jim? No, I haven't changed my mind on it, Jimmy. But there's no sense wasting your time, or mine, on a proposal that will not be, cannot be accepted. I still think that the city in its present straitened circumstances has no room for that particular appropriation in its budget. But I'm not urging you to take it out simply because I think it's, at this time, let us say, politically impossible. Would you give us a breakdown on some of these economies? How much? We've had people throwing around $75 million in the property specifications. This is very much in that category. Oh, no. It's not your usual fine self where you tabulate and give us something. Well, I haven't changed a bet. You'll find the detail is in there, but I'll go further than that. We will assign a man to your office to go over each of these items, item by item, and give you the supporting figures with respect to each item if that's what you would like. I'd like the totals. I'd like to see how much money you're actually going to save instead of, we've read all those other reports and a lot of them you have to spend $10 million to save three and things of that kind. You've got a lot of that stuff in there. You haven't done as well as you usually do and you generally do a good job. Well, I don't feel apologetic, so maybe I have done as well as I usually do. I think you were too conscious of how the state was acting. You're always a fair man and you wouldn't feel like criticizing the city without also criticizing the state, so you gave us generalities and let us dig and see what we can make out. We have to appoint another committee to study your report. I think you'll be able to make it out without another committee. Is that all, Mr. Mayor? Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Goldsmith. Mr. Mayor and members of the board, as a preliminary statement, may I say to you that I offer you my heartfelt sympathy. You inherited a great mess from Mayor Ligotti's time on. All about this transit that we hear, this transit deficit. It started when the city canceled the dual contracts. Mr. Seabury and Mr. Burley and the whole Marbley bailed out these old companies and gave good city bonds, which we now pay interest in amortization on, for many, many years that were tax exempt. And it burns me up because I remember right at this platform 20 years ago, Mr. Henry Klein and myself, we protested against unification. We said it would eventually bankrupt the city and we were thrown out of court. And therefore, I say, it isn't all you're making. You inherited a lot of this mess and it's your job to try to straighten it out. Because Mr. Howley and a few others have given out statements they want to know about transit authority. It's some of the reformers that put us in the position we're in now, including Mr. Quill who always taps the till. Now, gentlemen of the board, the taxpayers of the city of New York, yes, and the rent payers of the city of New York, the indirect taxpayers, strenuously object to this record-breaking executive budget of over $1.5 billion. It will be record-breaking unless pruned by over $50 million, not only in the total figures, but also in the resultant misery, human suffering, and financial losses to all of our citizens. Holesale foreclosures will be the order of the day. Many small home and property owners will lose their life savings, which they have invested either in a small investment property or in the building which they call Home Sweet Home. Members of the board ought to be more directly interested in strict economy than engaging in radio and television political pre-mayorality nomination campaigns. Assessing blame on this or that official means nothing to us. We are only interested in what's going to be the total figure on the last line of our tax bills. No matter how much hocus-pocus and juggling of figures, this will accomplish exactly nothing unless this budget has cut at least $50 million. Even at this reduced figure, it will be a bitter pill to swallow. Let me call to your attention and to the attention of all the rent payers that any large increase in the tax rate will eventually come out of their pockets as a substantial rent raise will have to be imposed on over 600,000 low-rent-paying tenants. The trouble, as I see it, is that the city officials tried to do 20 years' work and improvements in four years. It just couldn't be done. The city has overdone its huge tax-exempt subsidized housing program, tearing down thousands of tax-paying parcels and then paying in condemnation for same over the assessed valuations and assessing the loss of tax burden of the remainder of our thrifty citizens. The New York Times only yesterday or the day before stated that our housing projects went up from $7.5 million in 1935 to $735,882,000 in 1953. I have watched this housing has grown like topsy to a Frankenstein, which must be put to death before it bankrupts the city. I have watched this housing racket grow and grow and grow for the favored bunch, many of whom have means to live in regular tax-paying houses. At these projects, there is no shortage of new cars, televisions, radios, meat coats, and so forth, and buying these voters is very expensive and ruinous to the city. Another place to save a lot of money is in the department from which public officials shy away. I am referring to the Department of Welfare. About $15 million a month is entirely too much to pay out by us at this time. A complete overhauling in welfare is an absolute must. Many sections of this city are losing its good tenants by reason of an influx of citizens from Puerto Rico. Real estate values are dropping in these sections fast. The city eventually will be the loser in its tax revenue. Easy relief encourages the huge influx of this segment of our citizenry. Strict relief, regulations, and honest, efficient administration of the city's Marshall Plan I am sure can save our taxpayers over $25 million a year in the administration of home relief alone. Gentlemen, please forget politics and personal mayoral ambitions until this budget season is over. Act with courage. Be true to your oath of office and cut this foreclosure budget right to the bone. I hereby offer my plan to increase efficiency in the proper administration of welfare funds. One, cut out immediately all cash relief payments. Revert to the more efficient voucher system. This will reduce fraudulent recipients to a minimum. Two, make it compulsory that no more home relief is granted unless a resident of the city of New York for at least one year attention, President Lyons. Three, organize local relief boards fashioned after the local draft boards consisting of religious leaders and businessmen. This will cut a lot of red tape, help the worthy, needy families, and eliminate the relief fakers from our tax burden banks. Thank you. Yeah. Reverend Charles Keenan. Mr. M. D. Griffith. After the conclusion by Mr. Griffith, this board will take a recess until 2.15. Mr. Mayor. There will be no other speakers called after Mr. Griffith at the morning session. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen of the board. I am here at the direction of our board of directors to give support to the main article submitted by the Citizens Budget Commission. There is no need of repetition. I want to make two additional brief observations. As businessmen, we hope very much that funds for the City Department of Commerce may not be cut. It's been my privilege to work with the commissioner and with the director, and I know of my own knowledge that they're doing an excellent job. Number two, it is our hope that we might have a transit authority and put our transit on a self-sustaining basis. We're bringing millions in each day from New Jersey, Connecticut, Long Island, and we are subsidizing their transit fare. It doesn't seem reasonable to us that you ask the people of New York City to pay sales taxes in order to pay for the rides of the people from these outlying points. That's all I have to say, sir, and thank you. We'll recess now until 2.15. That's a good word. I got everything in that bag, sir. Okay. Hold your name. All right. Only need... Thanks. May I... Mr. Colby... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Miss... ... ... ... ... Miss... Nummer... It's a good way to stand it off. I thank you for calling me in time so that I can drop in to the planning commission. I asked the officer here in charge if he thought there'd be any chance of my pegging a rock at him in there, but he didn't think there would. You know, the evil one. I wanted to speak about two or three things over here that I don't understand. In the first place, you speak of these all being mandatory charges. Now, I want to know, in this mandatory court expenses, you state there are $14,500,000, that is $14.5 million, for mandatory court expenses. Now, does that include, or should there be cut off from that, the fees which come into the courts? Do the fees which are paid into the courts come out of that? No, the fees go into the general fund. This is our, this is what the net cost to the city of New York. Yes, but I mean, will that be cut? The fees that go into the court are not included in that item. The fees that come into the courts come into the city treasury. They're part of the general fund. Oh, I see. Then instead of there being added to, or taken away from that, they would be added to the $765 million, right? The what? Instead of there being taken out of the $14.5 million, they would be added in, would they not, to the $765 million, right? That's the general city revenues, which is the general fund. All right. Now, that's quite clear. Now, the next thing, judgments, claims, tax deficiency, and so forth, $36 million. I want to know if those judgments and claims that are added up to make the $36 million, would there be as much money to pay out for that expense if the schools and other buildings were kept in such shape that the ceilings didn't fall down on people and so on? That's a very good question. Well, that would be reduced by that, would it not? That's not reflected in that. The ceiling is not in that figure. It's not in that figure. I see. So that could be reduced in that way by making the buildings good shape. That's a very fine point. And another thing, if our streets were kept in good condition, there wouldn't be as many claims against the city. That would be a smaller item, would it not? That's another very good point. Thank you. I thought so. So that those two claims there would be lowered in another way. Now, I noticed this total budget is $1,528,000,000. And we have about 7 million people in the city of New York. About 8 million. Is it 8? All right. You're just about a million off. How many? There's 7 million people in the balance of the state. Right. In the balance of the state. But I wasn't counting very small children. I was counting about 7 million, you might say, fairly good-sized people. I'm not counting the little ones. Just counting those fairly good-sized, we'll say from what, when I was a little girl, the size that you were when you began to work, about five years old and on up. Because I commenced work when I was three. Taking those into consideration, that would mean about $218.30 a piece for all of those people to pay, wouldn't it? Your arithmetic is better than mine, Mrs. Metfile. Well, I've been at it too many years, you know. Of course, I wouldn't expect. Anyone have the facility and arithmetic, they haven't been at it as many years as I have. Or if you cut them down, and you say, well, the state is paying $307.5 million, and cut it down to $1,220.5 million, and divide again, not by seven, but we'll cut it down to five people, five million people in the city of New York. That would be big enough to earn a little something. That would be about $244.10 a piece. It isn't a big amount when you stop to think of the number of people, is it? Not terribly. Not a terrible amount. We're not thinking of that. Now, about the—this other question over here. The hospitals, health and institutional care over there, and the police. Well, in the institutional care, honestly, truly, between you and me, Mayor M. Peltieri, we want to take in the rest of the Board of Estimate, because they're not— Well, all right, yes, I'll take you in, Mr. Comptroller. What's going on here? Among us, honestly, truly, the least said about institutional care, the better, because some of that is mighty poor. I travel around and see those things, you know, and I know children that come from those places. I have been interested in children in institutions for a good many years, a good many years, and I've seen the care that they get, and I have taken a little bag of something along to give to a little fellow that didn't look as if he had had anything to eat for years in one of those institutions. You better take that bag and put it in a general fund, then. Oh, no. Oh, no, I couldn't afford that. No. All right. This is the next thing in your police department. You feel that you really have to take away one of our institutions on Staten Island, our jail. Well, I thank you for the great admiration society that you seem to have here for the Staten Island courts, because you don't think that anybody could hold any of our courts in contempt. A young gentleman over here took a little part of my fire away when he spoke of the fact that if anybody's in contempt of court, that any penalty he has to pay has to be paid in that particular shall I say county of the state. Comes into the general fund. That doesn't matter. That doesn't matter. He doesn't come into the general fund. He can only... He wouldn't be any good in the general fund. No. He can only be incarcerated in a jail in that particular county. They can't take him out of the county. So, evidently, you don't think that there's ever anything to be said in contempt of our courts. So, thank you for that, because you have with you a pretty fine member of the courts of Staten Island. Man that was given to you from our courts. Maybe we don't feel quite so happy about losing him, but we'd like him here. Are you listening here? Yes, he's listening. Paid you a very nice compliment. He's had plenty of them from all over... He's had plenty of them from all over the island. One of the what? One of the finest citizens of the borough of Richmond. Isn't that lovely? That was very nice, too. Thank you. Now about the auto use. You want to find places to get money. That's what you've been telling. That's what you've asked for this whole lot of people to come for. You say, we must spend this. We've only got that much to spend where we get more money. I'm not here to ask for any money. Not at all. I'm here to tell you where you can get it. And I think I can show you where you can get a good deal. Now this parking tax that you're asking for on Staten Island, I myself was one of the first people in this place to speak about putting in parking meters. But I expected the parking meters were going to be the same kind that they have all over the state. All over the state, and I travel quite a bit through this state. I can park my car in any city and put in one penny, and that'll last for 12 minutes. And that's plenty of time for me, traveling from one place to another, as I do, to run into a grocery store and get a few things for lunch on the car as I go. 12 minutes for one penny. Any city in the state where I've been. And I think I've been in most of them. However, over on Staten Island, maybe you didn't do it in the rest of the city. But you put in parking meters where you have to put in 10 cents. Now if I want to stay long in any other city, I put in a nickel, and that will last me for an hour. Over here on Staten Island, you can't put in a small coin. You have to put in a whole dime. And it doesn't matter how long you stay, up to one hour. And you can't stay one minute over an hour, or you get a little tag. You put it in for a dime, it lasts an hour? It lasts one hour. A dime does. In any other city in New York State, and I think in Michigan, so far as I've traveled through Michigan, you pay a nickel for an hour. And after your hour is up, you can go back, put in your next nickel, and let your car stay. I know that happened in a city upstate where I was. I had to go to a doctor's office. And I knew, because his was a crowded office, that I would be there at least two hours. I parked in front of the YWCA in that city, and I went in with a quarter's worth of nickels. And I put in one nickel before I went in, and I said to the girl in charge, would you mind putting in another nickel if I'm gone more than the hour? Certainly not, she said. We do that for everybody along this street. She said, all of those cars that are parked out in front have left money so as to pay their parking fee if it's necessary. She said, they all go up to the doctor's office, and nobody makes any fuss. So that is in other cities. Here, you pay 10 cents even if you stay two minutes. No more, they're wrong. They shouldn't even charge you the nickel. The doctor ought to pay for it. Oh, no. The doctors don't down here, and you don't expect them. You'd expect your pay. Now, there's this next thing. The housing projects, I'm still on autos. The housing projects on Staten Island, maybe it's not so in other boroughs, but they did not provide for autos for their people. They were putting up housing projects for poor people, but they all have autos. I guess they all do look so out in front because they're parked both sides of the street in front, and they stay all night. Those are the rich relatives that come to visit the poor people. No, they stay all night. And I take pains to notice that the same cars are there day after day. I'm no fool in the matter of cars. I do know them fairly well. And they're not Fords like mine either. They're better cars. Now, I do think, and quite a good many of them, I know there's one Connecticut car that I see a good share of the time. I don't know who owns it, but there's a Connecticut car that hangs around a good deal. There's a Maine car that's around quite a lot, and there's one from Alabama. All right, they're not paying any garage rent. I have to supply my own garage, and I do. It costs me extra to have it to reroute once in a while when the wind blows. But I do think that those people should pay something for their cars being outside. And when you spoke at one time here of $5 for a month, I don't think that's anything at all. I think that nobody should make a fuss about $5 for a month of parking a car on the street. You can't rent a garage for less than $12 a month. All right, now that's that part. Now, one of the people this morning spoke about parking tax on outside licenses. I don't know why they shouldn't. When they come into the city, if they're going into a garage, all right, but if they're parking on the street, in the garage they have to pay money. But if they're parking on the street and leaving their car here and there, why should they litter up our streets when we can't do it ourselves? So that's another one. Now the next one is, we've had quite a number of these expenses here. Expenses of WNYC. I think that WNYC should pay for itself. I see no excuse for your not letting out advertising privileges on WNYC. If the law says you can't, change the law. Change the local law. Fix it so that you can advertise on WNYC and make it fully paying for itself. But that's common sense. Now another thing. That's WNYC. I've heard other people talk about the closing of schools and so on. Four of our Richmond Borough schools have been closed to children. One of them just closed to children and allowed for a police precinct. Of course you know about that one. That's in my own home district. It's used as a police precinct, but it isn't safe for children up to the six-year age. And no other schools have been given us in the place of those four schools. None of them. Then we have the state offered us on Staten Island. Now I have to do with the colleges. You see people call me up from all over. Will you talk on this point? Will you talk on that point? Will you talk on the other? And so I get them all down, and then I just reel it off as fast as I know how to. Now about the state colleges, we have no city college or state college on Staten Island. But two years ago, the legislature offered to our legislators down there a state medical college. Pre-med is what they offered us. A two-year pre-med. And there was plenty of space. They said they were willing to let us have it as an evening school, because most of the people going there would be evening students. As an evening school in one of our high schools. We wanted it. We were not allowed to have it. We have a high school that is not used in the evening, and we wanted it there in Newdorf High School. We didn't get it. Although the state would have paid all of the expenses for it, excepting what was needed for housing. That's what they offered us. And the housing could have been in Newdorf High School on off hours. We were not allowed to have it. And yet, you're spending, but I don't know. You don't break things up, so we don't know how much for each. That's impossible to find out, I suppose. You're speaking about docks. That happens to be the next one on my list. Docks down here. You don't know how much you're going to spend for that. But the docks should pay for themselves, because we rent them out. We rent them out to various peoples. And they should pay for themselves. People should not have to be taxed for that. I think that's all of that list of things. Now, I spoke about the mistake in making this 10 cents on Staten Island. By the way, who's going to pay for that 10 cent mistake, as it was called in the newspapers, of getting the wrong kind of meters, the 10 cent meters instead of the nickel ones? We'd like to know that. Who pays it? Do we pay it on our taxes? Does the man who is leaving his car there pay it? Or does the man who made the mistake have to straighten it out? We'd like to know. Now, the auto licenses all over the state pay for the keeping of the roads in good condition. You know that. It's well as I do. And the roads upstate are getting better and better every year. They take one road or one part of a road and fix it one year. Well, it lasts for 20 or 25 years. The one in front of the old home upstate has been there for around 25 years, and it's in just as good condition as it was. And yet, army trucks have traveled there. There's been marching through. There's been all kinds of things. And a farm truck with lugs isn't much easier on a road than an army truck. You might not know that, but it's so. That water supply, I think I didn't speak of that before, 29 million that you have to have for water supply. Well, you know and I know that the water supply of the city of New York pays for itself. That should be eliminated from that place there. Because water is, as you all know, a commodity for which everybody who uses it has to pay. So that item shouldn't be there. And this down here, the 108, should be 137 million that we have left for these other things. Now also, we people coming from Staten Island over here have to pay 50 cents round trip. I was just talking with a lady from Brooklyn. She pays 20 cents round trip to come here. I was talking with someone else from up in the Bronx. He said he pays 20 cents round trip. And I know my cousins out in Queens and Brooklyn pay 20 cents round trip. With us, it is 50 cents round trip. Why? Because we have to pay on the Staten Island cars or buses. Of course, if you go on a train, it costs more. But if you go on a bus, it costs 10 cents. Then you pay 5 cents on the ferry. People going back and forth across the bridges don't have to pay on the bridge a nickel. But we have to pay on the ferry, which is our bridge. And then we have to add on to that the payment here of 10 cents on these cars or buses. And you can go in a train, a subway train. And it doesn't cost you but your dime. And you can transfer from one train to another. And it only costs you your dime. And I go all the way out in Queens. And I traveled on three different cars to get there. And it cost me my dime down at South Ferry. And I went all the way out there for a dime, one dime. It isn't like that over there. Now, you can cut down those things. That's an expense you can cut down. You can have the people over here pay for their own bridges. The maintenance and upkeep of the Brooklyn Bridge costs a lot of money. That costs the city a lot, doesn't it? Why not the people who travel back and forth on that bridge, since they have to pay 67 cents for a driver and a little car like mine, 67 cents to come across and the same to go back on a boat. Why not charge 10 cents each way across Brooklyn and Queensboro bridges, which have to be maintained? And the money for them, as you know and I know, comes from a fund laid away from the Staten Island ferry boats. You don't have any other way of collecting that. And then you say you have a deficit in the Staten Island ferries. You know perfectly well that isn't true. There is no deficit there. Never has been. Never has been since the time when old Cornelius Vanderbilt was a boy and used to charge very age of cross. All right. That's another way. You can save money. Now, there's another thing. I didn't have time to read every word in one of these big budgets, but I spent a lot of time and I found out a lot. This one point I was quite interested in. Here is a way you can save money. I just took a list of the people that I had been told by a certain man. I don't see him here now, but anyway, I generally see him sitting around this place. I asked him about who were given the Cadillacs in the city of New York, but he gave me a nice list of them. And so I looked those people up, only those, and I didn't have time to finish looking them up. All right. These people I'm talking about have, each of them as I understand it from him, a Cadillac furnished by the city, plus a chauffeur furnished by the police department. Now, if I'm wrong, tell me so. And I'm not talking about the cost of the Cadillacs. I suppose that was a gift from the, shall we say welfare? Yes, probably. From the welfare. It might be institutional care. I don't know. But anyway, we're not asking you to lower your salaries, but we are asking that the people who have been furnished Cadillacs, and by the way, that was one of the reasons why we felt as we did toward the late Unlamented in Staten Island. These people get, besides this, they get car fare and traveling expenses. Now, the mayor himself only gets $50 car fare and $500 traveling expenses. Mr. Controller, according to the budget, gets $15,200 car fare. Who gets it? You. I can tell you the page where it is we want it. You find me where I get car fare, and I'll buy you a hat which you never wore in your life. Thank you. I never wear it. Yeah, well, go ahead. Find out where I got car fare. All right. I'm going to give you the page, because I thought it was a peculiar thing. Now, wait just a minute. Wait just a minute. I have it here. Here it is. Look it up right now. Then you'll have it. Yeah, read it. Page 165. Controller, car fare, $15,200. You mean for the controller or for the whole department? Traveling. It says controller. Miss Barnes. Miss Barnes, you were once a school teacher, weren't you? Yes. Well, I think you ought to read that correctly. Well, you read that. I've been in office seven and a half years. I've been in office seven years and four months. Seven years and three months. Three months and 16 days. 16 days. If you will find that I ever put in a voucher for a quarter. All right. But why does it say it there? What do you mean? That's expenses for the whole department. 1,400 employees. All right. You're 1,400 employees. Don't they each? Does it say controller or office of the controller? No. No. It says controller. What does it say there anymore? You read it and you file it. I don't want to. I can't have that. For the department. Yes, but it doesn't say the department gets that. It says controller. Well, now, Miss Barnes. Now, wait a minute. Now, wait a minute. You know, I like to kid around and you like to kid around. Because, you know, in the final analysis, we're all kids, you see. Certainly. In spite of your 40 years, you're still a young lady. You know, when you give this out, I don't know who's listening. Somebody may really think that the controller's getting $15,000 car fare. Now, if you read that budget. Don't put it in the budget. It is in the budget. But it says there for the department. You know what that's for? No, I don't. Well, let me tell you. Let me tell you. I'm going to give you a little education and no charge. We have quite a few employees in our office. Right. They go out 2 in the morning, 3 in the morning. They go to hospitals, institutions to inspect the food. We have various phases of that work. They have their own cars. No, this isn't that. Now, wait a minute. I'll read that. Oh, you got another one. I have that, yes. Well, for your information, the controller doesn't need any car fare. It never took any. I didn't need any. And if you'll read the, if you'll be honest about it, if you'll read it, you'll find out it's for the whole department. Yes. But this I found, that it lists the number of employees at such and such a salary, the number at such and such another. And as newly as I can find out practically all of them get more money than I ever got as a teacher. Most of them do. Well, maybe they deserve more. Yes. Oh, bless your heart. You ask my boys. You'll find them all over the city, and you ask them whether I deserve pay or not. They'll tell you. Now, I told you the traveling expenses. Then here. I'll tell you, Ms. Barnes. Yes. I don't like to cut you short because your remarks are always so very constructive. Yes. And it gives the board a great deal to think about. But there's a lot of people in this chamber, and we have to finish up this budget hearing today. You haven't told all these people that. And some of them have spent a lot more time than I'm going to. But I've already given you 22 minutes. Oh, well, you gave a person this morning. I've given you. 45. Ms. Barnes, I'm conducting this session. All right. I say to you, in fairness to all these other people who have a right to be heard, I will give you exactly two more minutes. All right. At two more minutes, you have to conclude. All right. Then I'll ask to come back. I'll ask to come back. Now, just a minute. Don't take up my time, please. We're always happy to see you here, but you cannot trespass on the time of all these other people. All right. Some other people did. They did special expenses from the various presidents of the various boroughs. I mean the various boroughs. $6,000 a piece, excepting Borough of Richmond. You only give $3,000 for special expenses. Of course, the last one we haven't had very long, so he probably didn't put in any requests. But nevertheless, $3,000 is too little for a borough's biggest, Staten Island. Then we also find mileage and other allowances on personally allowed cars. And the controller's office, $8,300. And repairs to motor vehicles, $3,500. Now, the others are commensurate to this. And rental of office equipment in the controller's office, $138,082. Why do they have to rent office equipment? I can't understand it. And in the same way, for the Department of Purchase, rental of office equipment, $34,323. And so forth and so on. Now, those are the places I think you can cut expenses. And I've given you a lot of them. And I don't see any reason why you can't. And the things that I've given you from over here, I got those straight. And whether you believe in what it says in that book or not, all right, I don't care. I spent more than my two minutes. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Minnett, Mr. Merritt. Yes. I just got that page you're talking about. I don't know whether you were trying to be facetious or really serious. When I hear the items, postage, $21,000. Yes, I didn't say a thing about that. You did? I didn't mention postage. Well, do you think that's postage for me? No, I think that's for the city, so I didn't mention that. Telephone and other communications, $7,000. Do you think that's me personally? I didn't mention that. Is that personal? I didn't mention that. Well, do you know that it isn't personal? Why, certainly. All right. Now the next item is office services, $26,000. Of course you probably use it or have other people do it, but still, that is according to your office. What? Your office requires it. The other one is obvious. Your office requires those things. Well, don't you think they require a car fare? We send inspectors out every day of the year, every night. They got to use subways. They have no passes. They got to use buses and all that. See here. I am an inspector of dumps. I don't know what you are. In the city of New York. Listen, Ms. Barnes. Does anybody ever pay me one cent for it? No. Does anybody ever pay me any car fare? Never. Is that an honorary job you have, inspector of dumps? I don't know whether it wasn't intended to be honorary. It was intended to be facetious. But I didn't take it that way. And I do inspect dumps. And I find them here and there all over the city. And I report them. I tell the truth about them. I try to have them cleaned up, but I don't get them cleaned up. I don't get adequate help. But I do my job. And I'm not taking up this time, you know. That's you taking up this time. I took my two minutes. That's all. Thank you. Leopard Holtz. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, Mr. Holtz is engaged in the trial of a case this afternoon and asked me to appear for him and present a three-page statement that he has prepared. Now, if you care for me to read it, I'd be glad to, or otherwise I can just submit it, but I'd prefer to have it in the trial. Thank you. Just hand it in. Thank you. Thank you. Will you give your name for the record, please? Thank you. Thank you. Frank McAllen. Of course. Mr. Emanuel Schwartz. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen of the Board of Estimate, I'm appearing here today on behalf of the New York County Lawyers Association. Several of the members of this board are members of that association. Other members of the board might be interested in knowing that we have some 7,800-odd members and it's the largest local bar association in the country. We have a stake in the courts of the city, and we have especially in mind, so far as the board is concerned today, the Court of Special Sessions and the Magistrates' Courts. We have fought to improve the conditions in those courts so that they may render a service to the people, having in mind particularly the probationary service and the psychiatric service. The psychiatric service in the Court of Special Sessions today is exactly nil. The psychiatric service which is applied in the Court of General Sessions in the city of New York, which has charge of its own budget, has done such a magnificent job with every one of the defendants, every one of them being subjected to a psychiatric examination, that all over the land the Court of General Sessions is considered a top court in the sort of a job they do with the defendants. The defendants that come into Special Sessions and at the Magistrates' Court don't come in there for the purpose of being punished. That isn't the job of the Court. The job of the Court in a great many cases is to punish offenders. In other cases, it's to study the particular defendant and see what kind of treatment is fair for the defendant and for the community. And the Court of Special Sessions is unable to do that kind of a job because, firstly, it not only lacks any psychiatric service at all or any medical service, but the number of probation officers they have is a small fraction of what is needed to do the job fairly decently. In view of what's gone on this week so far about matters of salary, I shall rigidly refrain from an aspect of this case which would have to do with whether or not these probation officers are getting sufficient to be able to keep them there and do the right job. I'll only say in passing that in the Magistrates' Court they have an annual turnover of 30% of probation officers because conditions are not such as to justify their remaining. However, I repeat, my purpose here today, gentlemen, is not to ask for the increase in wage as much as I would like to have that be a possibility. And I'm conscious of what's going on in your minds and in your hearts and in this Board of Estimates and before your hearings, but rather to give to these two courts an adequate number of men. Now in the Court of Special Sessions in 1943, they had about 12,000-odd cases. Today, it runs over 30,000-odd that are arraigned in that Court. And the actual trials go beyond 5,000. And that Court, of course, citywide is in all of the counties and boroughs of the city. They just can't do the job with the number of men that you have, the funds that you have allotted, which purchases, so to speak, a number of probation officers. You have the chapter and verse in your reports. I don't think it is for me to rehash these details, which I'm sure has gotten some of your time and I hope will get more. But I just want to say generally, but I want you to consider, if you will, sympathetically, that if we don't do a good job in these courts of criminal jurisdiction, these lower courts, they'll all come to us in either of two ways. They'll either find themselves in the Court of General Sessions committing major crimes, or you'll have what we call in the law recidivists. Instead of being cured and helped by probation officers, they'll come back. We know that in the Court of General Sessions under the probation leadership of Irving Halpern, specific figures show that 89% of the men that are on probation and handled by the Court of General Sessions do not return. We have a fairly good average in the Court of Special Sessions. We have an abominable condition in the magistrates' courts. It's just beyond description. And I think the city would be well advised to spend some money in this fashion so that our judges could do a job for the community and it would be short-sighted not to give some additional probation officers to the magistrates' court and to the Court of Special Sessions. At least that is so in my opinion. And I have no axe to grind. I'm not a judge. I'm not a clerk in the court. I'm representing an association which has the same problem that you gentlemen have, how to do best for the people. And we say to you, without an axe to grind, objectively, as lawyers who are performing a function in the community, that these two courts, the magistrates' court and the Court of Special Sessions, if helped on the probation end of their work, will reflect credit to the judgment of you gentlemen and will save this community not only a lot of money but, what's more important, a lot of good, decent lives that would go haywire otherwise. Thank you, your honors. Mr. Cashella? Mr. Cassells, yes. Mr. Cassells, yes. Members of the Board of Estimate, I'm here as an assistant district attorney of Richmond County in the absence of Mr. Simonson, who was here on Monday but was not reached and he could not make it today. I want to address my remarks this afternoon to an item which is not, I understand, in the budget. And that is an item for the Richmond County Jail. As I understand it, the budget for the Richmond County Jail would be approximately $157,000. Now, of that amount, $136,000 goes to civil service employees. They would not be thrown out of work, I understand, if we abandoned the Richmond County Jail as a service to the city. They would be placed in other institutions. And every single employee of the Richmond County Jail, except one, is a civil service employee. He is a cook. So, taking $136,000 from the $157,000, the gross budget would bring us down to $21,000. Now, from the $21,000, $11,000 of that is for food. That food is going to have to be spent whether the defendants who are remaining in jail and also the supervisors of the jail have to eat whether they eat in Richmond County or in one of the other counties in the city. So, we come down now from $21,000 to $10,000. That is the most we can save at this point. But of that $10,000, approximately $5,000 is spent for clothing for the defendants and other special services that are required to handle the defendants in the jail. So, the most that the board and the city could save from the Richmond County Jail abandonment is about $5,000 or including that $5,000 and the $2,700 that the one cook who is not a civil service employee makes it $7,500. That's what the saving could be. Now, against that, and I grant you that if that is a good saving we should take it, but against that what are the pitfalls in not having the Richmond County Jail? They are many and we think that they far outweigh the small saving. Mr. Ralph DiIorio is present here today representing the Richmond County Bar Association. And he has on many occasions served as a defense counsel assigned by the court, by the county court. And in serving as a defense counsel, he serves without any compensation whatever. He does not, as many members of the Comptroller's Office, get car fare when he travels from his office down to the Richmond County Jail to see his defendant client. Nor does he get any compensation whatever. Now, if we subject these defense counsels who are taking their time and their effort to represent indigent defendants, to travel not from Staten Island to the Richmond County Jail, but throughout all parts of the city where the defendants happen to be large, it's going to create an additional burden on them that is not warranted. They will have to travel possibly to Bronx, Queens, up to the tombs, or out to the jail in Brooklyn. That is one aspect we think is damaging to a cancellation of the Richmond County Jail. Now, another aspect of it is that if we have no jail in Richmond County, all our defendants will have to be in various prisons throughout the city. As I understand it, those prisons right now are overcrowded. And in keeping them in the other prisons, we're going to have to have, you're going to have to provide additional funds for additional vans. You can't transport these defendants in anything other than the appropriate Department of Corrections vans. We will need additional vans to transport these defendants because they come from such a distance. Now, on Staten Island, as in other parts of the city, the county court starts at 10 o'clock. And on Staten Island, it starts on time. I can just imagine what will happen when the van is waiting over here in South Ferry and we have a fog. The defendants will be waiting in South Ferry. The court will be in session and ready to go ahead. The district attorney's office will be ready. Defense counsel will be ready. The jury will be there ready. But the defendant, because of the fog, will be sitting over in New York City waiting to come over because he has been lodged in the tombs here in the city. It's going to create undue hardship and make it very unreasonable procedure to have our defendants transported such a great distance. One other aspect of it we think is very important is that although defendants, we say, are not good people, they are entitled to their rights and they're presumed to be innocent until they're found guilty. And bearing that in mind, we feel that the people of Staten Island, where most of our defendants come from, where they reside, are entitled to have their family and their pastors or their priests or their rabbis visit them in the jail. It is a vital aspect of the rehabilitation of the defendants that during the time they're waiting for their case to come on trial, that they're given religious advice, they're visited by their parents. And if we have to have priests and rabbis and ministers traveling from Staten Island, the place of their parish, to all portions of the city to visit these defendants, we find that members of the clergy will not be able to take that much time off to visit all those sections of the city where the defendants are lied. We find that that will create hardship upon the defendant and will, to a great extent, reduce the question and the possibility of rehabilitating those defendants. And finally, one portion, another aspect of objecting to the closing down of the Richmond County Jail is that our office itself, and this is the only aspect that we come into it personally, and I would say that if that was the only aspect of the whole thing, we would not be up here speaking against the closing down of the jail. But we very often have to have defendants brought down on short notice to examine them, to question them, and in having them in all Charles Street Jail or the tombs or some other place, that could not be worked feasibly and quickly as is sometimes necessary. So therefore, under those reasons, we think that those reasons far outweigh the saving of $5,000 or $7,200 that is the most that could be saved by closing down the Richmond County Jail. And I believe that the borough president of Richmond County is also opposed to the closing of it. And I know there's been many editorials in the paper and many letters to the advance opposing it from people who have had on occasions defendants in the jail and wanted to visit them and now realize that if that situation were today, they'd have to travel to great distance. I therefore request, Mr. Mayor, that the budget have an allocation for the Richmond County Jail and that it be continued. How many employees are there in the district attorney's office? There are four, five, six, seven... Approximately. I don't want to know. Approximately a dozen, sir. A dozen. Don't you have car fare in your budget? I don't have any car fare. When I came up here... I didn't say you. I say your department, the DA's office. Haven't they got car fares? They might have. I wouldn't... Well, then why don't you talk about the controller's car fare budget for the department? Why'd you mention that for? I mention that because it was tied in with what Myra Barnes said a moment ago. It's purely as an example, not as an aspersion against your department. Well, I wanted to call your attention and I'm not criticizing it. But your department also has an item of $450 for 12 employees for car fare. I'm not criticizing it. No, sir. But I didn't want the impression to go around that that's the car fare for the district attorney himself or for you or for the chief assistant. It's for the department. I spent my $0.15 to come up here and I'll spend the $0.15 to go back. But if you put in a slip for it, you'd be reimbursed too. I was an assistant district attorney for a great number of years. And you know that that's the practice. And that's what it's for, Mr. Mayor. If you have a process server that goes out from your office to serve subpoenas and he incurs car fare expense, he's entitled to be reimbursed for that and there's nothing wrong about it. I realize that, Mr. Mayor, and I believe that our processes do that. Sure. But for myself, I'll spend my $0.30 in coming up here to speak before you and not put in a budget or slip forward. Well, you're to be commended for that and you have the congratulations of the people of the city. That will save us $0.30 in solving this large budget problem. That's very, very helpful. Now, is there anybody else? We've already heard two on this Richmond County jail. I think we're very familiar with it. I don't think we need any further information about it. If Mr. DeOrio wants to be heard, we'd be glad to hear him, but I think we're pretty familiar with it. Well, Your Honor, I would like to say just a few words. I'll be as brief as possible if you'll permit me. All right. I represent the Richmond County Bar Association on this question, Your Honor. And they are very, very strongly opposed to moving the jail from Staten Island. I'd like to give you a little of the historical background of our community and its jail. Are you the attorney that gets these assignments? Yes. Back in 1950, Mr. Comptroller. Do you get minor assignments? They don't have minor assignments. I got one murder assignment last year. You get paid for that, don't you? I get paid for that one, yes. But back in 1950, before the murder assignment, I was assigned to about 22 free cases in county court. Now... Well, that's the only time you do get paid is on a murder assignment. That's correct, Your Honor. And then the court ordinarily assigns two or three lawyers and they split the large sum of $1,000 among two or three lawyers. It was raised to $1,500, Your Honor. What? It was raised... Oh, it's raised... It was raised to $1,500 and we divided it between two. And my date used to be $1,000. I see. That's correct. And generally, the court assigned three lawyers and sometimes you'd be trying the case for two or three weeks. Exactly. That's right. That case was a total loss, but I'm not complaining about it. I got a million dollars worth of publicity. Beg pardon? For the defendant? Yes, we were for the defendant. We had a very good result there. He only got 20 years to life. Why did you do it? Take a plea? Yes, sir. After the trial was started and the jury was drawn. It's all right, $15,000 to take a plea. I'd like to point out a little... Just a few things that haven't been mentioned up to this point. I was talking on the telephone this morning with a Mr. Stoddard who is a director of the Staten Island Museum and I asked him some questions about the history of jails in Richmond County. And he advised me that it goes all the way back to 1719 when the first jail was erected in the area where the present jail is located. I just want to show you how deeply embedded in our community life is this jail that we're raising such a fuss about. Over 200 years. Now, the present jail, which incidentally is a $1 million establishment, was erected in 1895 or 96. And, uh, now let's see. To, uh, to abandon a $1 million project with a stroke of the pen, in my opinion, and in the opinion of most Staten Islanders, verges on the criminal. Uh, I would like to move on to another point. Population, the population point. I was, uh, back in 1950, the director of the federal census in Richmond County. And, uh, we counted 191,015 persons residing in the county. Now, this morning I, uh, took a little time to look into the population analysis on a statewide basis. Of course, we realized that Richmond County, citywide, is the smallest county. Now, on a statewide basis, however, it's, uh, it's very curious, very interesting to note that we stand in number nine position out of a total of 62 counties. Now, every other county in the state, whether the population is 15,000 or 500,000, has a jail. Now, Richmond County, as I said before, stands ninth, ranks ninth population-wise in the entire state. And I see no reason why we shouldn't, why we're not entitled to a jail. We've had it all of these years, and the fact of its long existence is proof enough of the necessity for it. Uh, another thing I'd like to point out is the fact that we're insular. We're surrounded by water. Uh, to, uh, transport prisoners from the various jails throughout the city to Richmond County is, is an unnecessary hardship, not necessarily on the prisoners, but on the, on the people of the city of New York, on account of the expense of the transportation. Not only that, it's a, it's a hazardous undertaking. One, it's a cardinal principle of law within, uh, within a prison, uh, the rules of prisons, to make the transportation of prisoners as quickly and as expeditiously as possible. Now, you've got a ferry boat ride of 25 minutes. Uh, anything could happen out there on that water. And when there's a fog, you've got a load, a prison van load full of prisoners, some of whom might be desperate. Anything can happen. It's bad enough when you've got a load of prisoners. You've got to transport prisoners over roads. But when you've got to, uh, uh, go over water, it makes the hazard even that much greater. And I'd like to conclude with this observation. Back in 1929, there was a move to, uh, divorce the prison, the Staten Island prison, from the jurisdiction of the sheriff to the jurisdiction of the department of correction. A deep study was made by the Grand Juro's association of New York County. And, uh, here's what they wrote. Richmond County Jail is located at, at Richmond, Staten Island. This jail was built about 25 years ago and is in generally good condition. The county officials giving serious attention to suggestions and recommendations for improvement made from time to time by the state commission of correction. The jail is regarded as one of the most satisfactory in the city of New York and about the only one which is adequate for the needs of the territory served. Now, that is just as true today as the day it was written. The average number of prisoners that you have there. The average number of prisoners is about 45, uh, Mr. Comptroller. Today, we have, we have a population of 53. What? 20. Talking about, he's talking about the average, uh, population. The prison. The average prison population, the budget director says, is about 20. 48 daily for the last three months, 45 for the rest of the year. 48 daily for the last three months, 45 for the remainder of the year, Your Honor. Today, it's 50, it stands as 53. Assigned from Rikers Island to clean the place. There are about 25. Not including those in the number of prisoners. 16, 16 of that total of 53 represents outside health. So that, uh, bring it down to some 30, 37 or 38. Well, but, you know, we certainly don't include the health in the prison population. What, what we're interested in knowing is, what is the average number of prisoners that are housed there? The average number of prisoners that are housed there is 45, as I understand, over a period of, a representative period of one year. 45. That isn't the figure that our budget director has. He's gone into it very carefully. Well, I have, uh, uh, here Mr. Donovan, who was one of the wardens down there at Richmond. And, and he, he gave me the figures and I've got them here. Well, we, we'll recheck it. We'll recheck it. All right, sir. Uh, I'd like to point one, uh, one last thing out before I close. Oh, incidentally, if you want to see a picture of the jail, I've got two beautiful photographs. Very good. Now, I would just like to quote from the, from a, a, uh, an editorial which appeared in the Staten Island Advance yesterday. And I, and then I'll sit down. Uh, incidentally, the Staten Island Advance, I'm not throwing any bouquets at it for ulterior motives, but the Staten Island Advance is considered one of the best suburban papers in the country. And I think any reporter who was present here today will verify that. I think, I think we've heard enough. Uh, can I read just one more statement, uh, Your Honor? Yeah. It's a sharp one. This is an editorial that appeared in the Advance yesterday. Why don't you file it with us? Oh, it's, uh, we also have a report that Mr. Donovan, uh, made some years ago in which he recommended that the prison be, at Staten Island, be abolished. That was six years ago. The census wasn't as high as it is. Oh, it, oh, it's changed. The census wasn't like it is today. Every place is overcrowded today. All right. All right. Thank you very much. Thank you. Uh, uh, Dr. Martin D. Dwarcus. Your Honor, gentlemen of the Board of Estimate. My talk is a continuation, by and large, of details following the concepts advanced by Reverend Dr. Feifeld this morning. And I'm very happy to speak on the New York City budget in the name of the New York City Affairs Committee. This budget is a social document. It's not just figures and dollar signs. It's our properties, our hospitals, our children, our aged, and our ill. It is all the people. It is all the people of New York City. And the lives of eight million Americans is no trifling matter. The city affairs committee, which is nonpartisan, putting eight million people above partisanship, does not assume the authority of knowing all the answers. We can only call your attention to some of the evident facts and figures and express our hope that you will listen in that spirit. I don't intend to cut you off. But there's a lot of people that have to be heard. You have, uh, the Board of Estimate has before it, uh, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine pages of closely typed material. And I notice that you're reading it word for word. I'll go through it, Your Honor. I would suggest to you that in the interest of saving time, that this Board has a copy of your memorandum. It's not going to help this Board to have you read it. If you have three or four salient points that you would like to make based upon what we already have, we'd be willing to take the time to listen. But there's no sense in reading word for word what we already have. May I distribute to each member of the Board a copy of this? Yes, surely. I would like, uh, then just to make one or two points regarding, uh, the attitude of the City Affairs Committee. Uh, not included in the budget is the operating budget of the Board of Transportation, although the debt service of the Board is so provided. If the Mayor's Lesser of Evil's budget is accepted, the operating budget of the transit system will become a responsibility of the new Transit Authority. The City Affairs Committee issued a report on transit, which proved conclusively that the estimated operating deficit of the Board, approximating $47 million, is a sham and a mockery. Now we, in our report, pointed out that the entire operating transit deficit could be wiped out by energetic management. And the report pointed out also that this could be done without a single firing by the institution of a hiring freeze. We have sent to you, Mr. Mayor, and to the members of the Board of Transportation some time ago, a telegram and a letter asking that such a freeze be instituted, whereby the expected 13% of the 44,000 employees of the Board who will drop out of the system in the coming year will not be replaced except for a few scarce categories. We think that in this field, as in so many other fields, the City Fathers have been found wanting. We think, too, that the institution of economy should be accompanied by the recognition that it is possible to secure additional revenues. We think that the authority, as it has been proposed, on the theory that the agreement between the State and the City can be worked out to the satisfaction of the Administration and the State. The other matters I've had in here, we have presented previously, I think, the suggestion that WNYC is a luxury which the City can afford to dispense with if we really are up against a very stiff budget situation. Other suggestions in here consist of the possible savings that would be made or could have been made in the past and still yet may be made in regard to city water supply if we were to proceed with the study of the Hudson River, as proposed by the engineers who studied that matter on the theory that we can save several hundred million dollars if we find such a proposal is sensible after it's been studied. The other remark I'd like to make is regard to the program budget, which we applaud. We hope you'll continue with it and we see great possibilities in it. Thank you. Yeah. Mr. George Kellett, Jr. Mr. Mayor and members of the board, the Citizens Union would like to commend you on preparing what is in effect a set of two alternative budgets here. So one is one that would go into effect if the transit authority is accepted and one if it has to be rejected. Of course the court case may enter into this too and you may find, we may find that we can use the additional real estate tax even if the authority is not accepted. At this time, it's too early to say what the city's policy should be. We think that if it should be impossible to change the present terms of the legislation in any way, then the city should surely reject the authority in spite of all that that would mean by way of emergency. Because the city would be giving up for all time, or for at least a very long time, the control of one of the most vital elements of its own government and welfare and development. It would be giving up the control of transit planning and transit fares with all their effect on the welfare of the city if they go too high, and turning over to an independent agency uncontrolled power to borrow in its behalf and at its expense something like a quarter of all its borrowing power. Now, if it had to stay that way, we think in spite of the difficulties, it ought to be rejected. But we're not assuming that it has to be that way. If, as we presume to be the case, you, Mr. Mayor, make your appointments to the transit authority within the next few days, and the governor makes his appointments, and they complete the authority with the kind of people, reasonable, able people, that we have a reason to expect, then we believe when they sit right down and face the problem, there is fair hope that we can get them to agree on a modification of the present plan, which will not call upon the city to surrender control of its own future destiny to anything like this extent, and will at the same time take the burden of transit deficits off the regular budget. Now, if that's so, it may be possible, and we hope it will be, to accept the transit authority. But for the present, we have no proper alternative than to be prudent, as you have, and prepare two budgets. Now, the question is whether the two budgets have been constructed on the right sort of basis. We don't believe that they are constructed to make the best of the difficulties. Take first the austerity budget to go into effect if we have to get along without the additional real estate taxes and also support the prospective transit deficit. That, according to your figures, presents a gap of something like $97 million, $50 million in the lost real estate taxes and $47 million transit deficit. Now, I'd like to outline very briefly, without going quite as much into detail as I have in the statement that's before you, how we think that might be taken care of to get revenues or savings beyond what is indicated. In the first place, the fiscal specialists on our Fiscal Affairs Committee think that the controller has been, understandably enough, somewhat overcautious, again, in his estimate of the yields of various taxes. At this point, there's an inadvertence in the wording of what you have before you. There won't be, presumably, any $10 million excess in the carryover at the end of this fiscal year. But there will be some excess over a safe margin in the carryover at the end of this fiscal year. And the rest of the underestimate of taxes in the next year, we think would add up to a total of perhaps $10 million. That's a matter of estimate. But that's considered judgment of the people on our committee. Then we would like to see the big part. Do you say $10 million carryover? No, not in the carryover. The statement says carryover, but please regard it as a correction. There will be some. The additional carryover plus what might come in next year. Plus what might come in next year beyond what's estimated. Which would make $10 million more. The two together, we think, might safely be estimated at $10 million beyond a safe carryover. You have to have some small carryover each year, of course. That would be $10 million that we are looking for. Now we would like to see the controller do again what he did last year and offer sufficient salaries perhaps to do it more effectively and add skilled auditors to the tax collection force to try to bring in more money from the taxes, particularly the sales tax. At this point, we didn't want to say that $5 million was the top of what might possibly be realized in that way. On the other hand, we didn't want to be less than cautious in estimating more than $5 million. We do think that $5 million is a pretty safe amount to estimate as a net gain from that kind of addition of trained personnel to the forest. It might turn out to be more than $5 million. We hope it would be. It might turn out to be much less, too. It could be, yes. You remember the estimate of the Mayor's Committee studies, which is $4 million. Not far from what we recommend. I don't think it could be $40 million, do you? Well, we'd be very pleasantly surprised if it were $40 million. I'm sorry. Now, then there's the question of the so-called nuisance taxes. We think they should all be levied under these circumstances. Perhaps they should not all be levied if you accept the transit authority. But certainly if you don't accept the transit authority and you have this austerity budget situation to handle, certainly all of them should be levied to the limit, because none of them are as bad as the effects of not levying. And there, without going into the detail that I have in the statement before you, you have a not too painful total $45 million that can be brought in during the next fiscal year from these taxes. And certainly some of those are not very objectionable at all. We regard the overnight parking tax as perhaps a nuisance to administer. And we admit that it would take some contriving to do it. But it has been done in Milwaukee. And we think it could be done here. And it's, after all, merely a reasonable fee for a garage space in the city streets, and we think it's extremely reasonable to go ahead and collect that $25 million that you could get in that way. Now, after collecting these $45 million of so-called nuisance taxes, then we think, since the city would still be shouldered with the burden of the transit system, that whatever steps can be taken should be taken to cut down that transit deficit. And one thing that can certainly be done is to cut out the competition of bus lines that run right over the subway lines, and that are not really necessary for the convenience of the people. In the recent bus strike, we had that shown that some of the buses could be dispensed with without any very great public inconvenience, and with a gain in the traffic situation on the streets, and some gain in the revenues of the subway system. Now, we think that should be done where it's a clear case that the lines are not really needed. And of course, some of the lines are private lines. But the private lines are not in a position to insist on keeping on running those lines under their franchises, because the only way they can do that is to get the city's permission to keep on charging more than their franchise fees. And therefore, we can, the city can cut out competing lines wherever it's wise to do so. Then, as another step, and a very important step in cutting down the transit deficit, not merely for this next year, but very especially for future years, we would like to see the long-discussed expedient tried of assigning to the transit system tolls on the city's free bridges corresponding to the tolls on the toll bridges, particularly the four large East River bridges. Now, we know, of course, that because of the problems of installing toll gates and extra approaches so that there won't be congestion there, it's going to take a while to get ready to do that. And we know that not all of the bridges could be bringing in extra tolls during the next year. But we think by pushing ahead with that as expeditiously as possible, and it can be done by borrowing without most of it being within the debt limit, that before the end of the next year, a fair amount of tolls can be coming in on at least two of those bridges. We think it's safe to count on at least $5 million before the end of the next fiscal year from that source. And then the year after, there would be many times that. It's been estimated that those four bridges by themselves, aside from any other bridges that might be suitable to put tolls on also, can bring in, when they get into full operation, something like $40 million a year. Now, that, of course, would have other benefits, too. It would not be merely the straight revenue that comes in. It would be that some cars would be discouraged from coming into the center of Manhattan, which would be a great gain in traffic. And some of the people would be diverted from their own cars to the use of the subways, which would bring in more revenues to the subways. So we gain in various ways by going ahead with this plan. And we think if the city has to continue with the operation, that that should be done. And perhaps it should be done anyway if the Transit Authority comes into existence. Perhaps that's a way that the city could subsidize the Transit Authority so it wouldn't have to raise fares in order to exist. Because we think that with the economies that have been recommended by the Mayor's Committee studies, and the revenues that would be available in that way, it probably would be possible to continue to operate the transit system without an increase in fares. Now, when you get through with all these expedients, there's only about $30 million of this $97 million left. And we think that could be taken care of without too great suffering beyond what's contemplated in the present budget, by proceeding rather boldly and quickly to take advantage of the management recommendations of the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey. That would mean spending some more money, perhaps a couple million dollars more money, and putting a really good, adequately paid top management consultants in all the principal departments and agencies of the city right away, and giving them executive backing. And then we could expect that each one of those would bring in many times his own salary in the course of the year by the economies that he would be able to recommend after actually sizing up the situation. And the reasonable thing to do would be not to try at this time to pick out exactly what lines the savings would be in to make up that $30 million, but to allot it in a fairly reasonable way to the different departments in lump sums, and expect these new management consultants, backed by the Mayor and the Board of Estimate, to be able to realize before the end of the year these lump sum savings that would be indicated. If, however, you think that it's necessary to change the line item budget figures at this time to take care of it, then we think that after making full allowance for these many millions of revenues, that the rest should be going over very carefully with certain principles in mind. And I'd like to emphasize these principles, because I don't think they've all been kept in mind in the budget that's before you. We think that any place where the present services can be really spared, or the present activities can be really spared, the cut should be made even if it means dropping city employees. Great care has been taken in the present budget not to drop any city employees. But this is, after all, a time of full employment. And if it becomes necessary to drop city employees in order not to continue activities that can really be dispensed with, this is a good time to do it, because the people drop can very readily be absorbed into private industry, and probably in most cases at an increase in salary beyond what the city pays, because the city doesn't pay very adequate salaries in many cases. Now, second, we don't think that cuts should be made where the activities are bringing in money. In fact, there may be cases where the personnel should be expanded, and the activity expanded in order to bring in more money. One instance of that was given by Ms. Carr this morning. That's the diagnostic center in the hospital department. That would save a lot of money by making that expenditure. Another instance, which is very close to our interest, is the new air pollution control department. If all of the engineers that were requested for the present budget, and the expansion plans of the air pollution control department were granted, every one of those engineers could bring in several times his own salary in increased fees for installations. Because the situation is that only about a third of the installers of fuel-burning equipment are now filing their plans with the department. That means all these installations are going on without the proper checks. The department knows the names of all the installers in the city, but it can't go after any of the ones that aren't filing their plans because the engineers that they now have are being kept more than busy with the people that are living up to the law and filing their plans. There's no sense in taking on more when they can't do more. But if you give them these extra engineers, then they will be able to go after all the installers in the city and proceed to pay for the increased budget that the department has asked for with the fees that will properly come in. Now the third principle is that we don't think cuts should be made in the principal management and planning agencies of the city. And perhaps this is a caution that doesn't need to be made, but we think, for instance, the Budget Bureau and the City Planning Department and the Civil Service Commission staff should be strengthened rather than otherwise and that that will be a good economy if it's done. Next, we think that where you do have to reduce the service that ought to be put back, and there may have to be some of that, that you should keep a good core, a good task force of the best trained people who can be going on with their plans and taking care of the most urgent situations, be prepared to expand at a moment's notice when the emergency is over. And finally, we think on these principles that you should be prepared wherever there are cuts to pay more for the people that are kept so that you will be able actually to fill the places that are kept with well-qualified people who can do the job better even though they have fewer people left to work with. It will be tough if we have to get along without the increased revenues and keep on with the transit burden. But it doesn't have to be anything like the amount of austerity that has been pictured. Now, if we are able to accept the transit authority, get rid of the burden of the transit system properly, and have the use of the additional revenues, then we don't think that it will be necessary to have any really serious curtailment in the city's present services. There are some serious curtailments in the budget that's here presented. We don't think that it's necessary to have the degree of curtailment that is presented in this budget. And the reason for that is that we think some of these expedients that I've been talking about can and should be used even if you don't have this very extra problem, even if you do have the use of these extra revenues. We think that most of these nuisance taxes are even then less objectionable than the sort of cuts that you have made in this present budget. We think, for instance, the overnight parking tax should certainly be used in any case. In fact, if you start in right away with these new taxes, you can get something extra by having them in effect the last couple of months of this year. The overnight parking tax would bring in $4 million extra in the last two months of the year, and the beer tax an extra million. And if you apply the admissions tax, which perhaps is a little doubtful, that would bring in $2 million extra at the end of this year. And if you decide right away that in any case you're going to apply some of these taxes, then by levying them right away, you'll have that much extra, even in the case of the austerity budget, to use. Now, you'll find in that way, with all the things that I've gone over before that should be done in any case, that you have to work with either $53 million or $67 million, depending on whether or not you levy the admissions tax on amusements. And with that, you can do a lot of things to take care of these dire situations that have been outlined before you in these hearings. And we have, in our statement that you have before you, indicated half a dozen of the kind of things that we would very much like to see done as part of that. I'm not going to go into them in detail. I'll simply mention what they are. The first of them is to let the Air Pollution Control Department go ahead with its job of cleaning up the air of the city as to industrial fumes as well as smoke. That requires a laboratory, which they don't now have. Second, we'd like to reinforce what Ms. Carr said this morning about continuing the very vital service at small expense of the daycare unit of the health department, so that people all over the city who send out their children to be taken care of during the day, their small children, will not have to worry that the kind of abuse of small children and disregard of their proper care that went on 10 years ago before this unit was started will be going on again. Third, we'd like to have you consider at least whether instead of financing the entire traffic department and police department traffic work out of the income from the parking meters, you shouldn't save that, or at least some of it, to finance off-street parking facilities, which we believe can be erected by the city with the help of the traffic department. That's one of the urgent needs of the traffic situation. Next, we're very concerned about the probation forces in the courts, particularly in the magistrates' courts, where certainly an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. We'd like to see the higher salaries as well as the additional numbers that are requested given there. All through the city, there are engineering places that are not being filled because you can't get good engineers at the amounts that the city is offering. We think realistic salaries should be offered, even if you have to offer a smaller number in doing so. And finally, we noticed that there are a couple of places in the budget where it's agreed that money must be spent during the year and it will somehow be found, but no estimate is made of the expense. One of those is for the higher rents that will have to be paid on account of the change in rent control for relief recipients. And the other is for installing this very important career and salary reclassification plan, which we are delighted to see you intend to go forward with. We think estimates of what will be required there, even though you can't make them very accurate, should certainly be put in the budget. Now, these are only a very few of the things that would have to be, that we think can be taken care of and should be taken care of out of the extra millions that you are not proposing to use. It will still be necessary to keep a tight rein on extravagance and to put into effect at the earliest possible moment the economy and management improvements, which your Committee on Management Survey has recommended, which can be extremely helpful in this difficult situation. But we don't believe that it will be necessary at this time to suspend any of the city's vital services. Dr. William McGill Burns. Your Honor, Mr. Mayor, another distinguished member of the Board of Estimate, I want to thank you for this opportunity to come here and talk with you a bit about this proposed budget for the Dental Division of the Department of Welfare. Thank you.