Ladies and gentlemen, WNYC is bringing you periodically programs and speakers of distinction. Speakers who are representative authorities in their respective fields. And now we take you to the city hall where the voice of the chairman will be heard introducing a featured speaker. Ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, men of the radio audience, the wisdom, experience, and advice of one who, above all others, needs no introduction. This is in the series of addresses arranged by County Clerk Archibald R. Watson upon the jury system, its history, its importance, and the civic duty of jury service. And you are about to hear the voice of one not unfamiliar to those who live in this great city, whose name and personality are likewise recognized throughout the nation. A public officer who has brought only honor and credit to the high office which he occupies, and who, though still inspired by the dynamic spirit of youth, has already given many years of a useful, eventful, and unselfish life to the service of his fellow citizens. By this description, you have already recognized the man who was about to address you, and you would, I am sure, be impatient for this introduction to be prolonged. But you will allow one sentence more. Of him you are about to hear, it has been justly said that he has as high a conception of public duty, as wide a range of talents, sympathy, interest, and emotions as any man in public life today. He takes as his special topic what kind of juries do we want? Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished mayor of the city of New York, his honor, be a... I appreciate the privilege of being able to talk to you about our jury system. I hope you have listened to the instructive and interesting addresses arranged for you by our county clerk, Mr. Archibald Watson, learned about grand juries from presiding Justice Martin of the appellate division, about the trial jury from District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey, and about the value of the jury system from Colonel Wickersham. May I remark here that the selection of a man of the type of Mr. Watson as county clerk justifies our efforts in the past to have such a position filled by appointment rather than by election. A political job has been transformed into a public office. There is a great need for the people of our city to become more active in the workings of our government, particularly in serving on juries and in acquainting themselves with the way the jury system works. There are people who are still confused about the difference between a jury in a criminal case and in a civil case. I heard the other day about a jury which rendered its verdict after a trial of a negligence action. Two automobiles had collided and the owner of each had sued the other for damages. In court, two suits came up in the one case, a civil case, with what we call a counterclaim by the defendant to the plaintiff's complaint. The foreman announced the verdict of the jury as follows. Your Honor, we find the plaintiff and the defendant not guilty and that they should both be acquitted. This could not have happened if the jurors were even slightly familiar with their duties or, if I may be permitted to say so to voce, if the court had intelligently charged the jury. Inscribed across the pediment of the Supreme Court building are the famous words from Washington's farewell address. The true administration of justice is the firmest pillar of good government. One of the most vital factors in the administration of justice is the maintenance of juries composed of upright, reasonable, intelligent men and women drawn from all walks of life. Without such people on juries, it would be futile to arraign and try before the bar of justice those who see fit to make a living from crime. Without them, the numerous disputes and conflicts that are bound to arise with the best will in the world among people living together and engaged in business could not be resolved and would expand and multiply social friction and even endanger the security in which we all live. Some method must exist for resolving these numerous disputes, these numerous disputes, these numerous disputes, these numerous disputes, getting them before a judge and jury, having both sides submit to a decision, and having both leave the courtroom with the dispute ended and a feeling that in the main justice has been done. Throughout the long experience of mankind, no better way has been found to arrive at the truth in a contested issue of fact than the verdict of a jury. Today, in civil cases, the people of this state have come to believe that a decision by five-sixths of a civil jury is of sufficient force and validity to be accepted as final. Despite all the attempts of science through lie detectors and other instruments to get at the truth, most of us feel, as our district attorney has stated previously, that the jury is the best lie detector of them all. It is only a jury composed of men and women with common sense which can discount the inflated claims of both sides to dispute and arrive somewhere near the actual facts. It is a jury from normal daily human experience which can generally pierce through the glimpsness of an habitual falsifier, which can give proper weight to the awkward recital of timid people abashed by the atmosphere of the courtroom, which can deflate the enthusiastic utterances of overzealous counsel, and which can ascertain when the witnesses are honestly mistaken in the version they render of particular facts. It is a proper jury which can see through a false alibi and which can pass a judgment on an issue of identity of participants in an alleged crime. It is a jury which can draw from its own experience in the workaday world proper inferences from a series of acts as to presence or absence of criminal intent in one accused of wrongdoing. When such a jury agrees on a verdict, we can generally be certain that in each case, chaff has been separated from the weak, and that justice, rough though it may be, has been done. Another great function and value of the jury in our scheme of things has often been overlooked. When someone has been accused of a crime, although he may possibly be innocent, a machinery has been set in motion which often seems like a juggernaut relentlessly pursuing its way and threatening to crash the accused. The entire power of organized government is behind a formal indictment. The very title of the case suggests that there is apparently unequal combat between the puny individual and the majesty of the state. People of the state of New York against John Doe, or the United States of America against John Doe. Against possible occasional mistaken charges brought against accused persons, the jury remains the only buffer between the shame of conviction and the daylight of freedom to which innocent citizens are entitled. It is the only protection within the reach of everyone against their arbitrary excesses of the abuse of power. When we consider the tremendous resources at the disposal of the state in its relation to indictments against individuals, we should cherish and treasure the maintenance of an unimpaired jury system as the keenly necessary buffer between the government and the individual. On the other hand, it is the best system conceived today to prevent a court from individual inclination, the influence of politics, or otherwise permitting a criminal to escape justice. The institution of trial by jury has been with us for about 600 years. It would not have endured this length of time if it were not real need for it and a fundamental approval by the people of its value as a means of resolving disputes and ascertaining guilt or innocence. We must avoid the danger of having such an instrument, important instrument, of our daily life become rusty and inefficient through public indifference and general shirking of the duty that goes with the right of trial by jury. The germ of the idea of jury trial was brought into England at the time of the Norman conquest in the 11th century. In essence, at that time, it was the summoning of a body of neighbors, the summoning of a body of neighbors by a public officer to give answer under oath on some question of fact or law. At the outset, the object of the inquiry was to obtain information for the king, usually to ascertain facts required in assessing taxation. The Anglo-Saxon custom or law of the time to prove guilt or innocent was either trial by combat, the ordeal, or comprogation. That is, someone accused of crime could prove his innocence by having a pitched battle with his accuser. If he won, he was innocent. If he lost, he was guilty. Or he could stick his hand to boiling water and hold it there for a while. If it came out unscated, he was innocent, otherwise guilty. Or he could get a large number of people to swear that he could not have committed the crime, a larger number than the number of witnesses brought by his accusers. That system hasn't been lost entirely. It took quite a long time before the jury's system, as we know it today, was finally established. One of the great elements for the security that a citizen of this country feels is the deep conviction that no matter who may be in power, no matter what false and baseless charges may be made against him, he will always have the right and the opportunity through witnesses whom he calls to stand to explain his actions to a jury of his fellow men and thus meet the case presented against him and vindicate his innocence. By the same token, officials charged with the responsibility of law enforcement have the assurance that citizens serving on the jury, as eager as he is to protect their own community and homes, will not hesitate to bring in a just verdict. The jury system functions smoothly only if men of intelligence and character may always be found in these juries. Occasions may occur when this is not the case. Then we have the possibility of a miscarriage of justice, whether in the conviction of an innocent man or the acquittal of a guilty one or a non-fair and unjust verdict in a civil case. jury duty is one of the most important duties the citizens of a democracy have to render. The general idea of the courts is a place where two people are scrapping, but litigation affects everybody, and there is nothing that is more conducive to loss of confidence in government than an improper and unjust decision of a court. The great danger we face is in not having the proper type of jurors because so many people who are properly qualified to serve hesitate about, refuse, or dodge jury duty. In some cases, people have complained of professional jurors who are satisfied merely to pocket their jury fees. Such jurors become callous and indifferent to the rights of the parties to a dispute. What we want in the jury box are twelve men or women fresh from their own daily experience, entirely disconnected with the court atmosphere and procedure to decide the case on the merits. We want active businessmen and women, professional people, and wage earners. We do not want the one merely seeking the three dollars per day. We do not want the men recommended by the politicians from the district club, nor do we want the politicians to use their efforts in getting men and women off from jury service. Getting on a jury through political influence for three dollars a day or getting off through a note from a political leader are equally bad. If any businessman or woman really finds it difficult to serve on a jury at a particular time, he will find the judge presiding a reasonable person. An opportunity will be given to serve the following month or the month after that. We must not allow our jury boxes to be filled with shiftless people just because the businessman or woman is too busy with his private affairs to serve. It is highly desirable to have a fresh supply all the time of properly qualified jurors so that the jurors themselves should not, from long service in court, get into a state of mind with a relatively fixed viewpoint toward trials like that held by persons identified with the courtroom. It was to overcome the effect of specialized judicial attitudes that juries were sought as a protection for litigants. Judges have their proper place in expounding the law. Jurymen are not required to be experts nor should we like to see them become experts in judicial procedure. We should like to have them always close to the needs, desires, sentiments, moods, and attitudes of the people at large in the community so that they can bring to the problems before them a cross-section of the best type of approach from their knowledge of life and living conditions. We can have such juries by a large and frequent turnover in our jury panels. The ideal would be every man a juror. Each one of us must realize that if he is indifferent to the type of persons making up a jury and is willing to allow someone else to serve in his place, he may find himself someday confronted with a jury not to his liking but which is really of his own making. Every citizen except those specifically excused or disqualified by the law has a duty to respond and to serve. Economic conditions, social positions, creed, or color are factors that do not and should not enter into the methods of selecting jury panels of and by itself somewhere in space. If it is to exist at all, it is only by the active participation in it of the citizens of this community. Democracy is not something handed to us ready-made. It is something we ourselves make with our own efforts. This is true of voting, of political activity generally, and it is doubly true of the jury system. You must not allow this important instrument for obtaining justice to become warped and weak through neglect. if you permit this one important pillar of democracy to crumble, it will become easier to have our liberties in other respects whittled away. We must be vigilant to guard the wholesomeness of this liberty as of all others. We can do so only by participating actively in the day-to-day workings of our democratic system, by gladly accepting the privilege of honorable service in helping to administer justice. In this way only can we preserve the heritage and tradition of liberty and justice under the law. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. In the enlightening address which you have just heard, it has been the privilege of this series to bring to you the wisdom, experience, and advice of the Mayor of the City of New York sitting at his desk at City Hall. Mayor LaGuardia's address was one of a series arranged by County Clerk Archibald R. Watson upon the jury system, its history, its importance, and the civic duty of jury service. Next Wednesday at 6 p.m., you will hear upon other phases of the same subject General Sessions Judge John J. Freshie. Ladies and gentlemen, may we call your attention to some of the highlights featured over your own city station, WNYC, to be heard this evening. At 6.45 p.m., Dr. Edward S. Godfrey, the state, the patient, and the doctor. At 7 p.m., the master work hour. And at 8.30 to 9.30 p.m. from the Waldorf Astoria, the 132nd annual meeting of the Medical Society of the State of New York. May we remind you, for good music, for outstanding educational civic programs, keep tuned to 810, your own city station. And we now return you to our studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system. new community members who are beds on the questions.