Friends, this is Lou Ayers. 100,000 American casualties. Men, women, and children of all races, all creeds, all walks of life were stricken during the three greatest infantile paralysis epidemics in recorded history. Few could afford the expensive care they needed, yet not one fought a lone battle. To answer every call for help, to provide doctors, nurses, hospitalization beyond the reach of most, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has spent millions. And the money was well spent. Lives were saved. Thousands were spared crippling after effects. However, the National Foundation exhausted its funds to accomplish this fact. Should infantile paralysis strike your child, he must have the immediate care the National Foundation guarantees. So make sure it's available. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters now. Put them into the fight against infantile paralysis by joining the 1951 March of Dimes today. How are you folks? This is Jimmy Durante speaking. Today I got something on my mind. It's such a big subject, I haven't got room to hold it up there anymore. It's about kids. Your kids. They're threatened by the visible crippler, infantile paralysis. For three years in a row now, it's struck in the biggest epidemics in the American history. Nobody knows what it's going to do this year. Who's kid it's going to hit next. So let STUDENTS How are you folks? This is Jimmy Durante speaking. Today I got something on my mind. It's such a big subject, I haven't got room to hold it up there anymore. It's about kids. Your kids. They're threatened by the visible crippler, infantile paralysis. For three years in a row now, it's struck in the biggest epidemics in American history. Nobody knows what it's going to do this year. Who's kid it's going to hit next. So let's go. We gotta get ready. We gotta get the money in the bank now. In the March of Dimes bank. So all the little kids who are gonna need treatments will get it. Even if they can't pay for it. So folks, listen to Jimmy. We gotta fight this infantile paralysis. And we gotta do it now. So send all the dimes and dollars you got. And then dig down deeper and send some more. Send them to your local March of Dimes bank. Dimes headquarters. How about it folks. You're gonna help these little kids. Join the March of Dimes. Dimes. Give yourself a cross examination. Are you just about to make a great mistake? Well here's a way to save this situation. So learn it now for heaven's sake. And give some others a little break. My name is Jiminy Cricket. And I'm your conscience too. So pay a little attention. Pay a little attention. Pay a little attention. The March of Dimes is underway. And it's really up to you. So let's go. And I'm your conscience too. So pay a little attention. Pay a little attention. If for two or three or four. If through you a child can walk again. Could you ask for anything more? There are ever so many who are much worse off than you. So give a little dime. A dollar and a dime. Huh? And always let your conscience be your guide. This is Jose Ferrer. What is a kiss? In the words of Cyrano de Bejerac, a rosy dot over the eye of loving. The bedtime kiss you give your child is a rosy dot over the eye of loving. And more. Each a hope that your child will always be well and strong and straight of limb. There are thousands of parents in America today who cannot kiss their children good night or good morning. For the children are in hospitals, victims of infantile paralysis. And the hearts of those parents, already heavy with grief, would break if lack of money was to stop care and treatment. But every parent in need has a friend in your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, guardian of the March of Dimes. Thousands of victims, hit by polio, look to your dimes and your dollars to help pay their way back to the normal health your children have. They depend on you, on your dimes and dollars. Join the 1951 March of Dimes today, lest you be sorry you didn't. Tomorrow. This is Henry Fonda. I want to tell you about a friend of mine in the Navy, on sea duty somewhere in the Pacific. Last fall, a shocking message came through to him. His little daughter Mary, back home, had infantile paralysis. You can picture how that boy sweated it out, helpless to do anything for his child, thousands of miles away. But your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis stepped in, and today little Mary's getting along fine. She's been helped through the worst of it. Now she's learning slowly how to exercise her paralyzed arms. By next year, she may even be well again. Hundreds of other servicemen's children, in fact, all polio victims who need help, are getting help today through March of Dimes money. But in the wake of the second worst epidemic in our history, March of Dimes must have your help to continue. Send all you can to your local March of Dimes headquarters, won't you? Don't let 1951's March of Dimes march without you. Meet Tom Harmon, famous football player and sports commentator. The world of sports appreciates the work of the March of Dimes. Infantile paralysis has struck down healthy athletes, just the same as it struck down folks from other walks of life. The sports fraternity appreciates the work of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and they've always contributed generously to this cause. They'd not only like to see every infantile paralysis victim have an opportunity of really beating this disease, but they'd like to see it knocked out of the lot forever. Athletes appreciate the importance of research work, the tedious hours necessary to find the cause and cure of polio. It compares a lot along the lines to an athlete of the hours that he must spend to reach the peak in the sport that he's participating in. So won't you join all of us in the sports fraternity today in our fight against infantile paralysis? Join the March of Dimes. Send your contributions to your local March of Dimes headquarters. This is Dick Hames. You know, I used to think that infantile paralysis was a rare disease. It attacked other people's children far away from my home. But in the last few years, infantile paralysis has hit time and time again in my neighbor's homes. Their children are my children's playmates. You've seen polio strike, and you've also seen your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis swing into action, offering its help paying the hospital bills if the victim can't afford them. In the last two years, we've had the two greatest infantile paralysis epidemics in our history. The staggering bills have exhausted all funds. But with polio increasing, we must have money on hand to meet another infantile paralysis epidemic. This year, it may not be a neighbor's child. It may be your own. So send your dimes and dollars to fight infantile paralysis to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Join the March of Dimes. This is Van Heflin. Ever see a tough guy swinging on the emotional rope, suffering from a blow to the heart? Well, there isn't a man in America tough enough to take the sight of a ward full of children stricken by infantile paralysis without going soft, and then getting mad that such things should be. I've been a polio ward, and I know. We've got to fight this disease. And we've got a fighting organization, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, in there pitching paying bills for families who haven't got the money, and constantly on the search for a preventive or cure. For this fighting organization needs money desperately. Get your share into the March of Dimes. This is the time to join the 1951 March of Dimes with plenty of fighting dimes and dollars. Give those stricken children a break, and maybe you'll save your own heart from breaking over the bedside of your child. Hello. This is Van Johnson. I wonder if you noticed that there were players missing from your ball team this year. In fact, a lot of kids missing from a lot of school activities. That's right. Infantile paralysis has been around again. This terrible disease doesn't play favorites, either. It cripples a star fullback right along with a frail kid. And this year, it hit America's younger generation with the second worst polio epidemic we've ever had. Your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis was on the job, though, every minute. In fact, it used up all its funds paying for iron lungs, doctors, expensive care, and a big research program. And the only way you can keep its great service going is by sending whatever you can, dimes, dollars, any amount, to the March of Dimes. Your local March of Dimes headquarters is the address. How about getting your contribution into the mail right now? Don't let any kid with polio go without help in 1951. Join the March of Dimes. This is Burt Lancaster. When I left the house this morning, there was a man there, fitting my three-year-old son Billy for a brace for his left leg in order to help him to walk. Now, Billy's going to be fine. Maybe it'll take three months, maybe longer. But eventually, he'll be all right. Nobody knows for sure how the invisible virus, which causes infantile paralysis, gets into the human body. But the hospital wards are filled with its victims, and they are proof that the virus hurts. Nobody knows how this virus grows or exactly how it destroys. But children in wheelchairs know that it paralyzes arms and legs. However, everyone knows that the medical care that the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis guarantees might save his life or help minimize the crippling after effects should infantile paralysis strike. So give generously to the 1951 March of Dimes to fight infantile paralysis. Send your dimes and your dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. And for that, today is the best day. This is Tony Martin. As in my work, I've learned the importance of one thing, teamwork. But actually, that is extended into all of our everyday lives. Consider the March of Dimes, for example. That is nothing more than teamwork, the pooling together of all of our help so that little children who are crippled by infantile paralysis can have a chance to walk. These children are not fighting alone, because there is such a thing as your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. That organization of mercy that provides all the medical and financial help they need to help put them on their feet. This crucial year, victims of the last two worst epidemics in history are dependent upon the National Foundation for Help. Help that we can give them. Let's show a little teamwork. Let's send more dimes and dollars to our local March of Dimes headquarters. With all our hearts, let's join the March of Dimes. This is Dorothy McGuire. If you're anything like me, you often watch your children sleeping at night, and your heart is filled with hope that they'll grow up healthy and happy without handicaps. But too many mothers in America can no longer do this. Their lives, their children's lives, have been turned into a nightmare by infantile paralysis. This terrible, crippling disease means hours of anxiety, weeks of pain, often years of fighting for recovery. Few people could afford to pay for proper care by themselves. And that's where the March of Dimes comes in. Its funds helping all polio victims who need it. After this year's devastating epidemic, second worst in our whole history, your dimes and your dollars are desperately needed. Send all you can to your local March of Dimes headquarters today, won't you? Don't let any child go without care. Join the 1951 March of Dimes. My name is Ray Moland. At some time in our lives, all of us have the feeling of being alone, and perhaps afraid. It's not a feeling any of us who are parents would care to wish on our children, is it? So think for a moment what it's like for a child when infantile paralysis strikes. Suddenly he's lying in a strange bed in a strange hospital room. In this time of terror, strange faces surround him. All he has known and loved is suddenly cut away. Gradually, though, he begins to learn that he's not alone there. Your national foundation for infantile paralysis is the friend in need for thousands upon thousands like him, providing care and treatment during every slow, painful step toward recovery. This vital work must continue in 1951. You can make sure it will by joining the 1951 March of Dimes. Your dimes and your dollars mailed to your local March of Dimes headquarters may keep your child from being alone. Hello, friends. This is Ma Perkins. I want to talk about something that's very close to my heart. Our children. Your children. I wouldn't want anything in the world to happen to them. But I've seen so many children stricken by that dreadful disease, infantile paralysis. These little children depend on our generosity. Without it, they'd not only be helpless, but hopeless. You see, so few of their parents can afford to pay for their expensive treatment. But by our giving to the March of Dimes, we provide the care they need. So, friends, give all you can. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Help these children as if they were your own. One of them might be someday, unless we all fight infantile paralysis now. Join the 1951 March of Dimes, please. This is Ronald Reagan. When was the last time you cried about something or felt like crying? I'm asking you men, too. I know there are times when I can't help getting a little choked up. For instance, when I see a small child crippled by infantile paralysis. What a tragically lonely feeling it must be to live in this world of walking people and not be able to walk yourself. First, I get choked up, and then it makes me mad. And I want to fight this disease, this paralysis, this infantile paralysis. Will you fight it with me? We've had the two worst polio epidemics in history in the last two years. Your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has used up every last penny of March of Dimes funds for helping the victims recover. Think how you'd feel if your child were to be stricken. Then help fight infantile paralysis by joining the 1951 March of Dimes. Do it today. This is Ann Southern. I'd like to tell you a story. A story about respirator F-12. A huge, enormous, iron lung. Respirator F-12 has been traveling the country for six years now, helping little infantile paralysis victims. Keeping the breath of life in a little tousle-headed boy in Massachusetts. A little blue-eyed girl in Minnesota. Cradling a nine-month-old baby in Mississippi. Out to California. Back to Michigan. The initial cost of respirator F-12 is $1,500. Paid by the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis with March of Dimes funds. Someday your child may need respirator F-12. May need help from the March of Dimes. Help the National Foundation be prepared in case. Dimes, dollars, send them into your local March of Dimes headquarters. Join the 1951 March of Dimes. Meet Robert Stack, popular young motion picture star. I don't have to tell you, there's more that goes into a television program than appears on screen. Believe me, the behind-scenes work of hundreds of people helps make or break a program. I don't think I need to tell you the same situation exists in the fight against infantile paralysis. Sure, you can see your contributions at work and the hospital wards throughout the country. But the big battle, the decisive battle that will rid the world of infantile paralysis, that will eradicate this disease for good, is being waged behind the scenes in the field of scientific research. Scientists working under the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis seek not only a cure for this terrible disease, but a preventive as well. When they reach their goal, your child will be safe from the crippler. Now, just imagine what this means to your family. So come on now. Join the fight. Send your contributions, your dimes, your dollars, anything your heart allows to the local March of Dimes headquarters. This is Louis Stone speaking. Please do me a favor. Take out all the odd change in your pocket and count it. Then try and figure out what it could buy that would compare and value to the life of your child. You can't think of a thing, can you? But listen, just wait a minute. Don't put the coins back. Instead, put them into the coin card addressed to your local March of Dimes headquarters and mail it today. Here's what you'll get in return for your money. The assurance that if infantile paralysis should strike your child, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis will give him every chance he needs to overcome the disease. Pay his doctor's bills, nurses, hospitalization, everything you can't pay for, and as long as he needs care. No one knows where the crippler will strike next. So join the March of Dimes today. This is Rudy Valley. Here's good news. The big offensive is on. Under the shield of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, your March of Dimes contributions have helped mobilize the very best scientific minds in the land to find a way to protect your child against the crippler of little children. And your dimes and dollars have served you well. Today, more is known than ever before about this mysterious disease. And important programs are well along in the search for a cure, vaccine, or other preventative to make your child safe from infantile paralysis. We've got a good start now, but more money is needed to carry on this vital work. Don't let the big offensive stop just when the outlook is brightest. Fight infantile paralysis until the visible crippler is conquered, until it can no longer harm the ones you love. Join the 1951 March of Dimes now. Remember, you're fighting on the winning side. Send money, dimes, and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters today. Do you know who this is? Well, of course you don't. This is Ed Wynn, ladies and gentlemen. And I'd like to ask your permission to speak seriously for the first time in my career, because this is a very, very serious matter. Very pitiful, too. Infantile paralysis. Have you ever seen a little boy learning how to walk for the first time in his life and learning on crutches? Well, I have, because I've been connected with this work for a long, long time. Oh, I've seen a lot of these kids. It'll break your heart, ladies and gentlemen. They're what we call in my profession real troopers, but they need help in their big fight against infantile paralysis, and they need it badly. With last year's epidemic, the second waste in history, that help has got to come double. I'm not fooling now when I ask you to please send those helping dimes and dollars of yours to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Please, please, ladies and gentlemen, join the 1951 March of Dimes. The Likectionsléало to Ad mismo Verxergens. We'll see you guys next time. Peace. See you next time.