And now the mayor, it looks as though the photographers have finished with him and now the mayor is ready to speak. Your municipal broadcasting station enables you to attend all these public hearings. Good morning, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to say a word first about the bony structure of this executive budget and then make some general observations. I filed with you a statement yesterday giving in detail the comments of the Citizens Budget Commission. I don't know, Mr. Riggelman. I don't know what's going on. I can't hear Mr. Riggelman at all. Is there some kind of a reaction to your voice or is there a time coming to it? Well, maybe I'd better stand away from this. I don't know what you're saying. Try it again, Mr. Riggelman. The Budget Commission yesterday filed with you a detailed statement concerning this budget. And I have no intention of repeating what is in that detailed statement except possibly an answer to your questions. Now I'd like first to say something about this bony structure. The largest single group. What was the adjective? Bony structure. Was that a B? I beg your pardon? Was that, does that word begin with a B? Yes, that begins with a B. Bony structure. Bony. All right. The largest single group of appropriations in this budget, which account for 25% of the budget, are for welfare, hospitals, and charitable institutions. The amount of those appropriations coming to $300 million is the highest point yet reached in this most significant trend in city expenditures. Actually, I think perhaps this can best be appreciated by comparison with the $37 million appropriation for the same purposes in 1930, $87 million in 1940, and $275 million last year. Last year's appropriation proved inadequate to meet the welfare requirements of the city. We have examined with great care the estimated caseloads upon which this $300 million appropriation or group of appropriations is predicated. And in our opinion, the estimated caseloads are reasonable. There is great promise, I'm afraid, in this group of appropriations for continuing increases from year to year. As new hospitals are built, the requirements, for example, for that phase of the city's welfare services will increase. I think the most significant thing about this number one item on the budget is that it indicates the city's skyrocketing state and interest in the field of welfare. Now, the second largest group of appropriations is naturally for debt service and tax deficiency account, which accounts for 20% of the budget. The only observation that is appropriate to make there is that it is a constant reminder of the effect of new capital expenditures upon the tax levy budget. The third largest item is education, which accounts for 18% of your budget. And there, I would say that this ambitious, imaginative program for the building of new schools can have but one effect, and that is to increase the operating costs of the Board of Education for future years. The fourth item and the fifth item are police, fire, and correction, which account for 11% of the budget, and sanitation, health, water supply, housing, and buildings, which account for 8%. And these show no appreciable changes percentage-wise from last year's allocation to the same departments. And finally, we come to pensions and HIP, the health insurance plan, which accounts for 7% of the budget. That percentage, with respect to pensions, tends to show the same type of trend as welfare expenditures. One of the contributing factors to that is the action of the state legislature in year after year, making minor changes in pension benefits for city employees, the cumulative effect of which is to constantly increase the amount of money and the percentage of the total budget required to maintain these pensions. I'd like to remind you that pensions under our present state constitution are a one-way street. You can increase pension benefits anytime you like, but once they are increased, they may never be decreased. Now as to revenues. The tax on real estate is up about $45 million. This is due in part to the 1949 amendment of the state constitution, which permits you to use full value as your base of assessment, as your base of taxation, rather than the assessed valuation as it was prior to the adoption of that amendment. But despite that fact, and despite the increased valuations and the additions to the assessment rolls, the tax on real estate, it seems likely, will be up by 19 or 20 points more than the current year. Your general fund revenues are going to be down below this year by an estimated $9 and a third million. There is no increase in miscellaneous taxes apparently contemplated and no new miscellaneous taxes contemplated, which I'm sure the public will be very grateful. The so-called other funds available to the city are up $10 million, largely by reason of increased state aid. The transit revenues will not be sufficient to pay off any of the short-term transit debt, and that will have to be met entirely by the city out of other than transit revenues. Now, gentlemen, those are the cold, bare facts with respect to this budget. No one can view a budget of a billion and a quarter dollars for the city of New York without grave concern. The concern is both as to the immediate effect upon the tax burden which is shared by all of the people of the city of New York, and even more so because of the promise implicit in this budget for still larger budgets in the future. And that, I submit, is something really to worry about. I suppose that as long as times continue to be good, the people will somehow or other, by hook or crook, manage to support budgets of this size. But, gentlemen, we can't always count on good times. And if bad times come, it is very doubtful that the city could protect its services against the inevitable loss of revenue that would come with a change in economic conditions. I would say that even a mild and temporary recession would make it impossible for the city to finance a billion and a quarter budget. Now, we've gone through some experience like this in the early 30s. And it took many, many years for the city's services to recover from the sharp and drastic and sudden cut that was required in 1933 in order to keep the city afloat. And that is a situation that we certainly don't want to repeat when the present era of good times and good feeling is at an end. On the budget that I, the statement that I filed with you yesterday, we tried to point out in what areas the city might protect its services against the impact of bad times. And incidentally, where in the meanwhile, it might be possible to lessen the drain of taxes upon the people, even in good times. In connection with that, I... Would you note that sentence? Yes. Mr. Riggleman, I'd like the public listening in to make a note of that sentence. Would you repeat it? Very good. Let us assume. Would you repeat that sentence? Yes. The statement published yesterday, put before the Board of Estimate yesterday, pointed out how and where, in the opinion of the Citizens Budget Commission, the city could protect its services against sharp and drastic cuts in the event of bad times, and how meanwhile, the drain of taxes might possibly be lessened upon the people of the city of New York, even in good times. Do you suggest the same services as we have now? Mr. Mayor... I'd like an answer to that. The people listening in would like the answer to that. Very good. I think... Would you or would you not like to maintain the present standard of services? I certainly would insist upon maintaining the present standard of services... And how would you reduce the cost unless you reduce the pay? Uh, may I answer that in my further remarks? No, I'd like an answer to that now. And I think the people listening in would like it. I'm sure they would. If you're going to have the standard of service that you've got today... I propose... ...that costs so much today, there is just one way of lessening the cost, and that is to pay the help less. Is that what you'd suggest? No, I'm not suggesting that we discharge a single employee or cut a single salary. Then I'm afraid I don't understand... And the rest of my... I'm afraid I don't understand the proposal, and I'd like to have it clarified so that the people listening in will understand what we're doing here. I promise to clarify it. All right. And that I'm approaching immediately. Because I'm trying to point out, and will now point out, that there are two controllable factors in the upward pressure of these yearly budgets. The first of those controllable factors relates to modifications that are made in the budget as publicly heard... ...as this budget is now being heard, and as the budget will ultimately be adopted by this board and by the City Council. The process of modification of this budget that is already before you, that is now before you, has already begun. It began on March 15th of this year. It is a process that will continue right up to the time that this budget becomes effective, and then it'll keep on continuing throughout the rest of the year. These... Can you give us facts for that statement? Yes, the facts are set forth in this statement, a copy of which was filed with the board yesterday. And if you want me to read examples of it, I'll be very glad to do so. But I'm trying to abstain from saying orally what is in writing before you, with specific reference to budget lines and to specific modifications. Well, we have looked into your statement, your analysis, and we find some very glaring inaccuracies in it. And perhaps it would be just as well for you to list what you say now are the dangers in this budget. And, uh, for your information... I'm talking about modifications, you understand. For your information, even though we've only had a very short time to analyze your analysis, I will ask for some comment, uh, from the gentleman who did analyze your analysis in those few hours, and point out to you where you're not accurate in the analysis that you released to the press last night. So I'd like to have you make the statements orally. Again, I would like the people of the whole city who are listening in, or that portion that is listening in, to know whether you're right or whether our budget director or our deputy mayor, Mr. Reid, is right. This is a good time and a good place to trash these things out. Well, I shall be very glad to do that, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Regalman. The expiring 1949-50 budget made after March 15th are of two types. Those that are one-time adjustments and will not be reflected in corresponding modification of the 1950-51 budget. And those that carry over in effect and will require comparable adjustment of the incoming budget. Modifications of either type are, in our opinion, improper unless they are unforeseeable. Now I shall give you some examples of one-time modifications of the expiring budget. In his report to the Board of Estimate, the budget director says, The President Justice of the Municipal Court has an official car assigned to the court, which is a 1939 five-passenger car. This car has traveled over 100,000 miles and constantly requires repairs. Recently, the rear spring broke and the car had to be towed into a garage. It is not befitting the dignity of the President Justice of this large court to be riding in an old, dilapidated car that is continually breaking down. Now the need for a new car for the President Justice is not disputed. Most certainly not disputed. But certainly, even according to the budget director's report, the car had been in constant need of repair. And by any fair standard, its economic life and usefulness had terminated long before the process of making up the new budget had begun. The need to replace it was decidedly foreseeable. By any fair criterion, it should have been provided for in the 1949-50 budget. Now that's example number one, Mr. Mayor. And I don't see how there can be any answer to that. In a budget of a billion, two hundred and fifty million dollars, the question you raise is whether or not we should have bought a Ford for the presiding justice of the Municipal Court last year instead of waiting to buy it this year. Now, Mr. Mayor, that isn't really the question. It isn't the amount that's involved. It's accumulation of modifications that total many millions of dollars for items that should have been foreseen at the time the executive budget was submitted, and which could be the subject of public discussion. Well, I might— Now, the second item— I might respectfully suggest that it's entirely too trivial an item to take up our time here this morning. I'm sorry, I didn't— I was just wondering what big important item you had in mind. I didn't—I didn't offer to take up your time, Mr. Mayor. I tried to avoid taking up your time. Well, I don't like generalities. Uh, no, and I'm giving you specific cases. And I— And, uh, I'd like to have some example of them, and the example you're giving me of your generality is a Ford car. That's right. That's typical of certain foreseeable expenditures which are not provided for in the public—the budget that is made public and the budget that is adopted by this body. Another example— The right order to buy a car for the judge sometime during the year. That's perfectly true, and you— It should have been— You think that's one of the things we ought to waste a lot of time with now on this budget? Certainly not, except that you've asked me a question. I'm very glad I did because, believe me, the example you gave is not very illuminating. I'll give you other examples. I'll give you the example of dictaphones that were bought for the, uh, Chief Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. Now, tell us about that one. Well, all right. The machines reportedly had outlived their usefulness. The money was transferred from the fund for salary and wage accruals since no funds remained in the codes of the court. The, uh—I don't recall what the amount was. Three thousand dollars. I'll tell you what it was. Three thousand and seventy-five dollars. I'll tell you. Well, I told you first. I didn't hear you when you told me. You can say that's a small item. All I'm trying to say is that it's the type of item that should have been provided for in this budget and not, uh, by interim modifications, many of which the public have no knowledge of at the time they're made. Now, there, uh— Mr. Mayor, let's be honest and—and, uh, uh, I won't say honest. We're always honest. I would like to have honesty on the thing. I appreciate it, Mr. Mayor. Let us be, uh, frank about this. The public, uh, has a very difficult time, uh, understanding the peculiar terminology that is necessarily characteristic of notices of that character. And frequently they—they don't know action has been taken until weeks after it's been taken. And even then, they—they don't know about it because the language with—with which the action is described is technical language that doesn't mean what we're talking about here to the average person who reads it. I might suggest, Colonel, that the Citizens Budget Commission understands the language. We didn't hear from them during the year. You know, there are limits to what even the Citizens Budget Commission can do. And when you have 125 resolutions modifying this budget within a period—a short period of time, it becomes almost impossible for any agency, however alert, to keep track of everything that you're doing. It's difficult. It's almost impossible. We do the best we can. I disagree with you. It's not difficult at all. It's published, and you have it in plenty of time. And the meetings here in the Board of Estimate are in the open. And any decision that's made here on these matters is justified by the facts. And we'd be very glad to hear the Citizens Budget Commission on each and every one of them when they come up. Now, the fact that you haven't come and talked to us about them at the time that they were passed, adopted— Well, now— Would indicate that you weren't interested at that time. Now, bringing them up— Let me— Let me continue with a modification— —penny by penny in a budget that runs into a billion two hundred fifty million dollars is, uh—it doesn't help us. I don't appreciate the criticism at all. Mr. Mayor, all I'm trying to do— I don't appreciate the criticism at all. All I'm trying to do is to give you examples that you've asked for. We have examples here of salary increases, interim salary increases. We have the example of provision made for the Mayor's reception committee for distinguished visitors. Well, I must— Yes, what would you do with that? Well, on June 16th—that's the day after the 1949-50 budget was adopted—the Board of Estimate approved a resolution transferring seventy eight hundred dollars from the Fund for Salary and Wage Accruals or other available funds to provide for expenditures for personal service necessary in connection with the Mayor's reception committee for the fiscal year. It provided for an assistant to the chairman at forty two hundred dollars and a secretary to the chairman of thirty six hundred dollars. If the need for such a committee was apparent in June, it was equally apparent in January and should have been provided for under the usual budgetary procedure. On the same day, the Board of Estimate, by resolution, transferred the entire three hundred dollar appropriation for departmental reports and bulletins in the City Registure's Office to provide a salary increase for a key employee. Now, certainly the need for this merited increase was not unforeseeable. Moreover, the need for the appropriation for reports and bulletins in what was described as an exceedingly tight budget is highly questionable, since at the very beginning of the fiscal year, it could be wiped out in order to provide a salary increase. Now, I'm not objecting to the fact that these foreseeable expenditures are not provided for in the budget that comes before you and comes before the public. Why don't you ask for some information when they're before the board? We'll give it to you. I'll give it to you now, a year later, just because you seem not to know why these things were done. In the case of the mayor's committee, the two positions for which money was allocated on the date that you say were positions that were maintained by private funds up to that point. And they ran out. And the services of those two people were necessary to be continued in our opinion. And for that reason, we allocated the money to pay their salaries. Now, how trivial can you get? Will you add to that that that couldn't have been foreseen in January? I will not add any such thing. It all depends on when these matters are brought before the attention of the board. Well, let us go on to the resolution adopted on June 30th transferring $5,250 originally appropriated in the Department of Education for general repairs, replacements, alterations, betterments, furniture, fire prevention, safety guards, to pay the salary of a newly created position of public relations assistant, Department of Education. Not only is this diversion of funds from a wholly unrelated and allegedly vital educational purpose most questionable, but if a public relations assistant was needed, why was the line not provided in the 1949-50 budget when it was being formulated? Now, that is a tough one, Mr. Mayor. It's in there now, isn't it? It's in there now, but it wasn't in there in the budget when it was adopted last year. Do you know why? I beg your pardon? Do you know why it wasn't in the budget last year? Do you know why it wasn't in there? I have a hunch, yes. What is? My hunch is that it was the type of a job that the Board of Education probably was hesitant to disclose and discuss at the time that the budget for education was being considered. Your hunch is not only wrong, but it's obviously biased, and I think it is founded on such a nebulous foundation. But I'd consider any further remarks you have to make as of no importance whatsoever to this Board and this budget. I trust that you mean that it's in reference to this particular item. That item? As a matter of fact, you asked me whether I knew what the explanation was. You said you had a hunch. I said no. I wanted to see what the train of thought was. Yeah. And your hunch was that the Board of Education wanted to hide from last year's budget this position. Mr. Mayor. That's your hunch, wasn't it? Mr. Mayor. I believe that one of the reasons why modifications running into millions of dollars are made at times other than the time when the budget is up for public discussion is because of a desire on somebody's part not to expose certain types of salary increases and unbudgeted appropriations for other than personal service. to public discussion. In any event. Are you suggesting that when the Board of Estimate takes action on them that they're done in secret? I'm not suggesting they're done in secret. Are you willing to admit that they're done openly after notice has been published? I am willing to admit that time to time. Are you willing to admit that you are welcome to come here and oppose them when they come before the Board? Mr. Mayor, I feel welcome here at any time. All right. Then why give out the impression that these things are done in secrecy or because of what you call some fear of talking about the positions? Mr. Mayor. Why should you do that? That's not fair. I'm not doing that and I want to make a statement that will explicitly prevent any such implication. I'm trying to play this game down the middle of the line. I think the record would be vastly improved by such a statement from you. Mr. Mayor, now you, if you'll just permit me to say it, I think I can ease your mind on that. Not my mind. I want the public listening in to know that just exactly what's in your mind. I will ease the public mind and make known exactly what is in my mind. I will be saying that these hundreds of resolutions modifying the budget after it is officially adopted are done in the open by the Board of Estimate on notice through regular city channels chiefly in the city record. In fact, exclusively in the city record. They occur in such quantity and at such frequent intervals that it is almost impossible for the public to keep up with the stream of modifications, which result, by the end of the year, in millions of dollars of modifications, changes in salary, allocation, allocation for items which were not budgeted for non-salary purposes, all, and this is the important point I'm trying to make, all at the immediate expense of the salary and wage accrual fund, and at the ultimate expense of the tax appropriation reserve fund, which is the only important cushion, and certainly a most important cushion, against the impact upon the city services of any reduction in the city revenues as a result of a business recession. Are you suggesting, Mr. Riggleman, that these modifications are additions to the budget adopted? No, they are within the budget, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to have the record clear on that. But if they were not... Are you also suggesting that they're made without an investigation by the budget director in every instance and a favorable recommendation? Oh, I'm sure they're not. Mr. Mayor, we've never had a more efficient budget director than we have in Mr. Patterson. We have the highest respect for him and for his assistant, Mr. Bean. And I wouldn't for the world let anybody get the impression that we are criticizing either of those gentlemen or you or the members of the board on any specific item involved in these modifications. We are condemning the policy of making budget modifications for foreseeable items, thereby defeating the purpose of the tax appropriation reserve account, which is the only cushion this city has against a business recession. That tax appropriation reserve account today ought to amount to $150 million. Actually, there's only $38,400,000 in it, and it wouldn't be a drop in the bucket if bad times should hit the city. That's the only point I'm trying to make, Mr. Mayor. Furthermore, if these modifications are not made at the expense of the salary and wage accrual account, there would be evidence that the appropriations that were made in one year are perhaps larger than certain departments require in another year. What would you do, Mr. Riegelman? That might be accomplished. What would you do in the course of the year after the budget has been adopted if you found, for example, that due to the prevailing rate of wage, a decision that's made in the course of that budget, that an amount of $645,632.70 had to be transferred to meet a legal obligation that occurred after the budget had been adopted? That is an unforeseeable contingency, and I would certainly approve modifying the budget for that purpose. The controller did it last year, and I think it amounted to $600,000, and it was a perfectly proper modification. And while I'm talking of the controller, I want to say that one of the commendable features of this budget is the realism of his estimates with respect to general fund carryover and general fund receipts. Mr. Riegelman, on your report... The fact that similar modifications occur year after year bears out that presumption. I don't see any reference to the prevailing rate of wages there. By what right have you to presume what that money was used for when you haven't even apparently asked the simple question? Mr. Riegelman, and how can you say whether or not it was foreseeable when you don't know what the item was for? Mr. Mayor, most of these items are obviously foreseeable. Is this one foreseeable? The one that you refer to is not included in here. I don't see any reference to it. Mr. Riegelman, it is. Well, let's see. I'm sorry to tell you that your investigation has been very sketchy. Oh, I see what you have in mind. I hope you do. You mean that included in this $1,647,000 is the item of $600,000 with respect... If you know this for the first time, I'm very happy to be the agency by which you're informed. Mr. Mayor, we happily brought that item to your attention elsewhere in the report as a type of item that it is perfectly proper to make a budget modification for. Then if you did, why did you make such a broad statement with respect to over a million dollar item? You didn't mention it there. Mr. Mayor, the resolution... You referred to it as a criticism. The resolution, which included the $600,000 item, came to $1,647,000. We had to describe the resolution. There is an item in it that is a perfectly proper budget modification. Why didn't you say so? We did say so elsewhere in the report. That is not true. I'll read it to you. You read it yourself. You've got it there. You certainly didn't mention it at all. Well, I know it's in the report. However, Mr. Riegelman, we're wasting a lot of time. No, we're not wasting time, Mr. Mayor, because there's one other point I want to come to. I spoke of two controllable factors, and we've been debating about modifications. The other factor that I'd like to mention is the difficulty of inducing the departments to accept more efficient methods of management and operation without costing any city employee his pay or his job. Now, I don't think that the department heads are wholly to blame. I believe that the root of the evil... First, would you mind stating what your complaint is? My complaint is this. Before anybody is to blame for anything. What are you kicking about? I'll tell you, Mr. Mayor. There have been presented to the city, both by the Citizens Budget Commission and by the Division of Analysis under the direction of Mr. Beam, specific recommendations showing how, by improving specific management methods and procedures, applying modern practices within the departments. And these were specific recommendations, not general. The cost of operating these departments could be materially decreased or the service rendered to the public could be materially bettered without any greater cost. Let me ask you a question on that. When you made those recommendations, you said you gave a timed target and said it could be done within four years. Is that right? That's correct. And only two years have elapsed. That's correct too, Mr. Mayor. And of the two years that have elapsed, better than 60% of those recommendations have been actually put in force. According to the statement that you have before you in cold type... Your statement? Yes. The record is... God hasn't spoken yet. The record as we see it. And I'm not saying this in a critical spirit, Mr. Mayor, but in a spirit of objective evaluation. I have no... Colonel, let's have the facts and we'll be burned by them. The fact is, as appears in this report, and therefore I hadn't intended to repeat it, that approximately and perhaps a little over 50% of the recommendations made in that 1948 report have been adopted or partially adopted. And there was a... I would say that 12% have been fully adopted and 38% have been partially adopted. Did you say that in the case of the Department of Sanitation, that studies are being made in one section of the city for the purpose of developing an overall program? I think one of the... Have you said that in your report? Yes. One of the most... Yes, I certainly have said it in our report. We have said it in our report. I think probably the area in which that survey had its greatest effect, with the aid of the Department, the Division of Analysis, was in the Sanitation Department. And we are very well pleased with the progress that this Sanitation Commissioner, your new Sanitation Commissioner, is making in relation to the reorganization of his department. You happen to pick out one of the bright spots in that situation. Now, I'm not here to chide the administration with respect to the report of the Citizens Budget Commission or with respect to the excellent proposals that have been made from time to time by the Division of Analysis. All I'm trying to point out is that the resistance within the departments themselves to these recommendations is one of the great factors in making it difficult for the city to make retrenchments which it could otherwise make. And the point that I'm trying to make is that that resistance certainly doesn't come from the mayor, it doesn't come from the Board of Estimate, and it doesn't come from the city commissioners themselves. But there is within some of these departments, if not all of them, certain key personnel which has or thinks it has a vested interest in conditions as they are, regardless of how obsolete, archaic, or wasteful those conditions may be. Mr. Riggleman, I think that, again, is one of your, quote, haunches, end quote. If the recommendations were given a four-year period to put into operation, and at the end of two years, better than 50 percent have been carried out, what cause for complaint could you possibly have? First of all, four years applies to a 100 percent performance. The bulk of those recommendations could have been put into effect and should have been put into effect within two years. Now, will you be specific on that? Yes, I've been specific in this report. And, Mr. Mayor, I would like this report to stand on its merits. In that respect, I don't think there will be any difference of opinion between the Budget Director and the Budget Commission with respect to our explanation of that situation. I'll tell you, Mr. Riggleman, I have a surprise for you. I'm having your analysis of the budget analyzed, and when you see our analysis of your analysis, you will make your mind up that there is a vast area of disagreement between you two. Well, I'm prepared for that, Mr. Mayor. And I can say now that I'm quite sure that the difference of the area of disagreement will be an area of honest disagreement. We have a very high respect for you, Mr. Mayor, and for the members of your board. We admit of the possibility of areas of disagreement. Mr. Riggleman, you have... We certainly will give your side of this the same consideration that we expect you to give our side of it. Mr. Riggleman, we haven't been too much excited over your expressions of admiration. I'm not trying to excite you, Mr. Mayor. I'm trying to mollify you and pacify you and encourage you to take an objective view of what I'm saying, and I don't think you are. I haven't been too successful in that respect this trip, but I'm going to do the best I can and point out to you this. We've had this 48th survey. You've now launched another citywide survey under the direction of Dr. Gullick, for whom we have the very highest respect. Did you tell him that? Did you tell him that? It's more important that you should know that we have respect for him. Oh, he'd like to hear it. No, I think he realizes that. He'd like to hear it, too. All right. We'll see that he gets that information. We appreciate the fact that you've put three trustees... You'd better forego that because there might be a demand for more money. I expect there will be a demand for more money, and I think he's entitled all the money he needs to put on a good, thorough, comprehensive survey. The controller doesn't mean that. The controller means that he might find the services inadequate and require more money be spent. You've never yet heard the Citizens Budget Commission come before you and resist a demand for increased expenditures which were needed in order to improve the services of the city. Will you hold that for a minute? No, I don't. I want to go on to the next point, if I may. Now, hold that for a minute. I want to hold that because I want to pinpoint that statement. We have never heard the Citizens Budget Commission object to a demand for needed... Increases? ...increased services. Where the service... Oh, no, no, I didn't say that. Needed. I said that you've never yet heard the Citizens Budget Commission object to an increased appropriation where better services actually needed the increased appropriation. Commissioner Kogel, will you take the microphone, please? You are asking me to yield, I think. I am asking you to yield. I yield. Commissioner Kogel, how much are you here to ask for over and above the amount allocated to your Department of Hospitals for the coming fiscal year? Well, the executive budget asks for $80 million, a little over $80 million. What do you say? More than $2 million than the current budget. We had hoped that we might get at least $99 million. Do you believe that the $99 million are absolutely essential to do a needed job in the Department of Hospitals? Yes, sir. I thought the $99 million was the irreducible minimum of what we needed. Thank you. Will the Commissioner of... Will the Fire Department step forward? Traveling in fast company today, Mr. Mayor. Chief Murphy of the Fire Department, over and above, what this budget allocates for the Fire Department for the coming fiscal year how much more than that do you believe is essential for your Department? $2,152,000. Thank you. Will the Sanitation Department, Commissioner Mulrane, will you step forward? Yes, sir. Commissioner Mulrane, over and above what's in this budget for the Department of Sanitation this year, how much more than that do you believe is absolutely essential? $8,847,000 to employ 2,649 additional men. $8 million on. Thank you. Will Commissioner Ray Hilliard of Welfare step forward? Commissioner Hilliard of the Department of Welfare, how much more than is allocated in this budget here today that we're considering do you believe will be necessary for the next fiscal year? Mr. Mayor, a minimum of $11,400,000 to take care of the caseload as we saw it in January. As we see it today, that $11,400,000 will probably turn into at least $21 million. Will Commissioner O'Brien of the Police Department step forward? Commissioner O'Brien, over and above the amount of money allocated to the Police Department for the coming fiscal year, how much more than that do you believe is absolutely essential for your department? For the coming fiscal year, Your Honor, we feel that $3,766,800 is urgent. But we are making a request for the future, not too far, not too distant future, for a quarter of men which would require an appropriation of $19,516,800. All right. Thank you very much. Now, Colonel Riggleman, you've heard five city departments who are not satisfied with the amount of money we have allocated for their departments, and they state that they, to carry out the needed services within their departments, they will need a total of $53 million more. How do you feel about that? Well, Mr. Mayor, I appreciate the pressures under which these department heads are working. I would like to find out just exactly what the justifications are for those increases, but meanwhile... Would you have the time to hear the commissioners make out a case before this board this afternoon? They are going to make out such a case, or at least try to, and I'm sure you will understand that I would like to reserve the right to examine very carefully into what these demands for increased appropriations are. If they are essential to the well-being of the city, the Citizens Budget Commission would certainly not oppose them. However, I think that each one of these commissioners, as he gets up, should state, frankly and fairly, to the Board of Estimate and to the public the amount of the accruals in his salary and wage accrual account, which were accumulated by the end of the year and were either not spent, which they shouldn't have been, or were diverted to other than the purposes for which... And by diverted, I don't mean that in any evil sense. Diverted to purposes other than the purposes for which they were appropriated. For example, we know that over and above the required accruals, that is the deductions which we knew would be made at the beginning of the year because of deaths and resignations of city employees, the Board of Education accumulated $2,200,000, fire $800,000, health $3,754,000, sanitation $2,200,000, welfare $2,300,000, and so on down the line. We don't know what the other departments accrued over and above the required salary and wage accruals. Those figures are not made public. But those... That is the source of these budget modifications that we were complaining about. $53 million? Oh, no. I don't know what it totals. There isn't a man on this board, Mr. Mayor, who can tell me what those modifications totaled or what the excess over required wage and salary accruals accrued in the departments. Did you ever ask for that information? Yes. We asked for it and it was not made... It was told that... We were told that it was not for public information. Actually, we got these accruals from the... We got these accruals from the departments themselves, but all of a sudden the departments, the other departments, refused to give them to us. So I presume that for some reason or other, which is probably a sound reason, that information was to be withheld from the public. So that we don't mislead those who are listening in, Colonel Riggleman, accruals in any department are there for the succeeding budget, aren't they? Well, no. The wage and salary accruals go off into the, uh, into the tax appropriation reserve fund until that fund has reached a certain level. What pocket it goes into is there when we need it for the succeeding budget. You're right. All right. Now I want to ask you a question or two. You said after the five commissioners had mentioned uh, their opinion of their needs that if they could make out a satisfactory case, the citizens' budget commission would not oppose them. Did you say that? That's correct. All right. Now, that is to say you wouldn't come down here and oppose them. Is that what you mean? That's correct. Uh, however, as an expert on municipal finances, uh, it is true that the money to pay for that comes from two sources. One would come generally from real estate and the other part would come from the most part from taxes. Right? Well, ultimately, it all comes from taxes. Well, I'm talking about taxes that the people understand like sales tax, this tax, that tax. Federal aid and state aid, they all come from taxes. Some federal aid and some state aid. Now, if we were to get $53 million more for these five departments, and there are many other departments that haven't been heard from, we would have to get it from a combination of real estate contributions or from other taxes. Right? If you include in other taxes the state and federal aid, yes. Now, when you do know that at the present time under the existing law, we cannot get any more money than we're getting out of real estate. Isn't that true? That's pretty close to the ceiling on that. All right. Isn't it also true that there are, we're getting as much as we can from the other taxes, including state and federal contributions? Well, you're certainly getting as much as you've asked for, and thank goodness you haven't asked for any more. I'm coming to the point. I asked for the right to change the 2% for expense purposes on real estate to 2.5%, which would give me $83 million for this expense budget. What was your position with respect to that request? Oh, Mr. Mayor, I'm going to answer that. It's all right for us to kid each other, but don't let's kid the public. You know perfectly well that if the legislature had said yes, it wouldn't have made a bit of difference in this budget. It wouldn't have given you a cent more of taxation or tax receipts, and it couldn't possibly have that effect under the Constitution itself until 1951. explain that. When did I ask for it first? Two years ago. Two years ago. It would have been voted upon, wouldn't it, last November? No, it would not have been. Well, I'd like to differ. It requires two... It required two separate legislatures. Yes, and there must be an election in between. And we got two separate legislatures, and we had an election in between from the time that I first asked for it. Mr. Mayor, it honestly and truly, you know and I know, it doesn't make any difference whether either the year before last or this year, the legislature approved. I don't know what you know, but I know what I know. I asked for it and you opposed it. And that's perfectly true, Mr. Mayor, but the fact of the matter is that even if I'd approved it and the legislature had acted upon it, this budget could not have been in any way affected by it. That is not... And that is true, and you know it's true. That is not true. All right. I'll point out two things that were voted upon last year that were asked for at the same time that I first asked for the 2.5% and which you objected to and opposed. Two things that were voted upon last year. Mr. Mayor, all I know is this, that you asked for, that you asked and we opposed the application for an increase in your taxing power in 1948. And a request or action by the state legislature in 1948 would not have been sufficient, even if it had been approved by the legislature, to get you relief before 1951. It is, sir. That is not so. Well, all right. Those are not the facts. We had plenty of time to get it from the two previous legislatures. The point I'm trying to make, Colonel Riggleman, is this. You stand here and say that if these five commissioners make out a case for $53 million extra that you do not oppose them if they succeed in making out a case. But you do oppose the one way that we could get that money and that is a 2.5% on real estate. No, there's another way you can get it, Mr. Mayor. How? How would you get it? By economies within the present budget. Oh, Mr. Riggleman, economies means cutting salaries, doesn't it? No, it does not mean cutting salaries. Does it mean reducing services? It doesn't mean reducing services. I asked you that a way back in the beginning of your talk. And I said that it didn't mean either of those things. Well, you can get along with fewer men than you're now getting. Where? We still don't wish you to discharge anybody. We simply wish that you would not fill vacancies until you've gotten down to the level that can carry the services at at least their present standards and perhaps even better. That means that we have too many men on the payroll. That means that if you introduce modern management methods and modern procedures into the operation of the city, you can get along with fewer men. 38,000 teachers, too few for the city. As far as I know, they are not. How about the new teachers for the new schools? You need new teachers for the new schools. How about the Delafield Cancer Hospital, the Ewing Cancer Hospital, the 572-bed hospital at Kings County, the Newneponset Hospital that we're taking over? How about manning them with doctors and nurses and technicians? Mr. Mayor, they certainly... Do you think that can be taken out of the air? They certainly have to be manned. We're not talking about that type of thing, and you know it. I've already said to you... I don't know what you're talking about. You haven't told me where I could cut out men. You'll find that in the cold, perhaps forbidding, pages of the statement that was filed with you yesterday. There is nothing forbidding in that statement. It's laughable. Well, I'm sorry you laughed out. From what we have read already, it's a laughable statement. We take it very seriously. I'll send the answer back to you, and I hope you'll take that one seriously. That's the one I'd like you to read carefully, because that one is based on facts. I'll be very glad to read it. All right. I hope it is based on facts. If it is... You haven't seen anything from me yet that wasn't based on facts, have you? We haven't seen anything from you that doesn't reflect a perfectly honest judgment on your part. That would be a grand note to end this... Sometimes, however, Mr. Mayor, being completely human and lovably human, you do make mistakes. I mean, I take positions that you don't like, and you call them a mistake. I'm just as human as you are, although not as lovably so. And I confess that I make mistakes. This is a situation in which mistakes are easily made. All I can say is that I do my level best not to make mistakes, and my record here for nearly 20 years I think will demonstrate that. I want to prove to you that the report you sent into it is loaded with mistakes. Well, if it's true, we certainly want to find out, and we want to acknowledge them. It's in the process of the present time, and we'll bring that to your attention at the earliest possible moment. Fine. Now, Mr. Mayor, I want to say in conclusion that no survey, whether it's by as excellent an institution as the Citizens Budget Commission or as competent a director as Dr. Gulick and his fine committee, will correct any abuses, any weaknesses, in the management and operation of the City of New York. The mayor himself can't do that without the full support of the Board of Estimate and the cooperation not only of his department heads but also the key personnel, the key permanent personnel within the department. The mayor has enjoyed the full support of the Board of Estimate from the day he first presided at these meetings, and I have no single fault to find with any of the commissioners in charge of my department. I'd like to know where you have any trouble. The emphasis, Mr. Mayor, is upon the key personnel within the department. I'd like you to point out where they're interfering with our program. I haven't found it. All I can say is this, that there are some excellent proposals to improve the services of the City of New York that have not been rejected by the heads of the various departments. As a matter of fact, they haven't even been debated by the heads of the various departments. They simply haven't been accepted. Now, all I'm suggesting is this. Some of them definitely have not been accepted and I agree with the commissioners. Some of them are entirely unrealistic. All I'm suggesting is this, that when these gentlemen come here, and this doesn't apply to all of the commissioners that will stand before you, and demand increases in budgetary appropriations, those increased appropriations should not be budgeted for them unless they either show or show that they have accepted incontestably sound recommendations for the improvement and lowering the cost of their department or, or, not only refuse to do so, but are able to justify their refusal publicly. Why not be frank with the people who are listening in? If these commissioners make out a 100% case, where is the money available to give them one penny of their demands? Under the present setup? As far as I can see, under the present setup, the only source from which they can get the additional funds is from savings within their own or other departments. And if they are unable... You're back again to the reduction of manpower or the reducing pay. One or the other. Mr. Mayor, there's just one element in this thing that you seem to have ignored entirely. What's that? And that is the desirability of furnishing efficient service within the means of the people of the city of New York to pay. You have just praised... Where do you think these taxes come from? You have just praised the division of analysis under Abe Beam for his studies in this regard. Yes. The citizens' budget studies. And you have also praised the committee under the controller with the executive director, Director Luther Gulley. You have praised these efforts to get down to an analysis of what the city's needs are and what the cost should be. And I've also said... With all of that, you went around and found somebody that you haven't mentioned who has rebelled against any attempt to increase the efficiency of a department. That isn't quite the correct statement, Mr. Mayor. The whole thing is not... On that point was that surveys and studies alone will not correct the situation. You will agree with me that the studies are necessary. They're absolutely necessary as a foundation for the correction. And the major purpose... But you've got to have not only the support of your admirable board of estimate, which you have... That's right. And not only the support of the heads of the departments, which you have... That's right. But you've also got to get the support of the key personnel, the permanent personnel within the departments, which, Mr. Mayor, you do not have. Point out where I haven't got it. I point it out in every area. Show me the man that's opposing or the woman that's opposing. Oh, now, Mr. Mayor, don't let's... Don't let's... You're talking to the people of this city over that microphone. Why don't you tell them? I'm telling you that there are perfectly sound recommendations made by your own Division of Analysis and made by the Citizens Budget Commission, which nobody has ever debated or questioned, which are not being acted upon. And the reason they're not being acted upon, in my opinion, is because of the resistance underneath the heads of the departments and not at the heads themselves. Will you do me a favor so that you and I won't continue to squabble for the balance of the day? We have been squabbling. We've been exchanging views. Will you make a list of the things that you say are not debatable that have been recommended and have not been put into effect in any one of the departments? With the greatest of pleasure. Glad to get that. And, Mr. Mayor... I'm sorry we won't have a microphone to tell the people what the answer will be, but you win on that one. Mr. Mayor, can I stick my two cents in here for a minute? Don't make it that low. I heard Colonel Regalman say that he was opposed to modifications after the budget is adopted. For foreseeable expenditures. Well, now, you've praised this committee that the mayor has appointed, which I think everybody concedes is non-political and non-partisan. I'm the chairman of that committee and we have a very fine group of citizens from every walk of life, including a representative of the Citizens Budget Commission. Three of them. Well, that's fine. I don't know who the three are. One comes in and sits... Grim, Dowling, and Tobias. And we have another one who sits there when Mr. Dowling isn't there and he's been very helpful. And you think that we're going to accomplish something. So do I. I've worked very, very faithfully and very diligently since you appointed me. That survey is going to cost a lot of money, Mr. Mayor. I don't think, Mr. Patterson, you have anything in this budget for it, have you? Well, I'll have to modify this budget from time to time, Colonel, won't I, in order to pay for these experts and the health and so forth? That's a very interesting question, Mr. Controller. This study was conceived, as I remember, during the latter part of 1949. The mayor will correct me if I'm wrong. It seems to me that there should be provision in this budget for as much money as that committee reasonably requires to carry out its work. And that's a lot of money. You would have found me down here singing the praises of the Board of Estimate and of the mayor if such provision had been made. And let me say at this point, there is another provision in here that I forgot to single out for commendation. And that was to convert into the permanent pay structure of the city the remaining part of the cost of living bonus. That was a good job, Mr. Mayor, and we congratulate you on it. Well, let's not jump off. Let's get down to this. I've got to modify that budget. Is that right, Colonel? You'll have to because you failed to provide for it. Well, how long do you think this committee is in existence? The committee was conceived of... I don't know when it was conceived. When was it born? It was... Well, the mayor can answer that. My recollection is, Larry, I certainly have a greater admiration than ever for your obstetrical knowledge, but the fact is that if my recollection doesn't play me false, this committee was born prior to January 1, 1950, and provisions should have been made in the budget. Larry, we're not going to oppose that modification. It's part of a policy that is bad. Now, wait a minute. I know you're not going to oppose it. That is the idea, but you said you opposed these modifications after the budget's adopted. Let me give you a little homely illustration of why you're wrong, Colonel. For instance, the head of my Department of Adjustments, Claims and Adjustments, died. He was with the city for many years. And I appointed another civil service man to his job, a man who's been with the city for many years. I didn't give him the same salaries the other fellow got. There's a difference of a few thousand dollars. Now, I know men in that department who work 16 hours a day, who are entitled to a little more money. And the only way I can take care of them is to take the extra money that I save because I don't give the other fellow the same amount of money, and try to take care of a few others in there, and that's done by modification. Now, what's wrong with that, Colonel? I couldn't foresee that this fellow was going to die. Unfortunately, unfortunately, that's just a little example. Mr. Comptroller, you put a tough case. If I were in your place, I would want to do exactly what you did. But viewed from the standpoint of proper budget practice, the provisions for the increase should have been made in the ensuing budget and not made in the interim. Now, you asked me whether I'd have done the same thing if I were in your place, and I would hesitate to say no, Mr. Comptroller. There's a human element in there for which you are justly famous that should not be discounted. You had a difficult decision to make. I think that technically your decision was wrong, but as a human being, your decision was right. Can I say more? All right. Now, Mr. Mayor, I'm not going to steal this show anymore. You've been on an hour and ten minutes. Yeah, but don't forget that I had planned to state what I had to say in three and a half minutes, and I'm very glad that you gave me this opportunity. I hope the public of the city has been enlightened by this exchange of views. I want to thank you for your courtesy and your indulgence. Colonel, before you leave, I want to take you back because there are a lot of people I hope listening in. You said that if you had not opposed the two and a half percent that I asked for from the legislature against real estate, that we were fooling the public that we couldn't have that money now if it were passed by both legislatures and passed and voted for at the election. Didn't you say that? I said that if your 1948 request had been acted upon favorably, you wouldn't have had the benefit of it for this budget. Now, here is something that I want to give you to check up because I regret to say your information is notoriously wrong, and I want you to check on this. You mean this particular piece or all of my information? Oh, generally. Generally, Colonel. I didn't expect that from you, Mr. Mayor. You never said that before. No, I never had it brought out as clearly as I've had today. Let me show you. Did we or did we not vote last November for $150 million for hospitals as a constitutional amendment? We did, didn't we? 1948. Last year. Last November, Colonel. Oh, yes. All right. Sure. Now, was that not a constitutional amendment? Yes, certainly. Was it not necessary? We went along with you on that. Was it not necessary to have two separate legislatures pass on the resolution before it was submitted to the people? Yes, I don't recall. For your information, I asked for the 2.5% the first time at the very same time that I asked for the constitutional amendment for hospitals and you and your organization opposed it. Well, now, Mr. Mayor, if you asked for it at the same time... We did. ...it would have become effective for this year. If it had passed. If it had passed. All right. At that time, we opposed it on the merits and when there was a suggestion made that it should come up at this session of the legislature, in which event it could not have become effective until 1951, we opposed it again. And, Mr. Mayor, we shall continue to oppose any increase in the taxing powers of the city. So long as we believe that that increase is not necessary and we shall continue to believe that the increase in taxing powers of the city is not necessary as long as we think that there are economies which the city can make in its own administration, in its own housekeeping, sufficient to take care of the needs for increased appropriations for worthy and desirable purposes. Now, that's a perfectly frank statement of the position of the Citizens Budget Commission. That statement ranks with some of the other silly statements because it doesn't help us at all unless you can put your finger on economies that can actually be made and have not been made. Right. Economies where how are you going to economize? Reduce pay or discharge help? I've answered that question. Of course you have. And you've ended up with the same number of people to pay and the same amount to pay them. And you end up with a budget the size of this and you can't come in here now and point to one single item here that would make a substantial saving. Mr. Mayor, we've come in with items totaling approximately $12 million in only five city departments. I consider that a substantial saving. You're... And a substantial part of that saving, it couldn't all be made this year, but a substantial part of that saving is possible. Colonel, how do you come in and say that it can be taken out of this budget if it can't be done this year? What I said was that all of it couldn't be done this year. All of it could have been done this year. I think, however, if there had been a prompt adoption within the departments two years ago when the recommendations were first made. I've already explained to you that I do not think it necessary in order to accomplish these reductions to discharge any city employee or to reduce any city employee's salary. But I do believe that it is necessary that when vacancies occur as the result of, well, a normal result, that in many cases they should not be filled, and in that way the city's payrolls can be reduced without harming any existing city employee. Let us assume that your preposterous statement, that you could save $12 million in five departments. This budget is true. Now come five departments and ask for $53 million of additional services that they say are essential. And that's five departments. How still could you give the essential services without that extra tax on real estate? Mr. Mayor, you're making an assumption I'm not willing to make, and that is that because the departments are asking for $83 million or $53 million, they need it in order to furnish better service. I am assuming two things for the sake of the argument without conceding either one. One, that you could save $12 million in this budget. The other, that five departments can make out a case for necessary expenses actually amounting to $53 million. I'm assuming those two things without conceding either one of them as a fact. In that case, we haven't got the money to pay, and the only one of two ways that we could do it is to get one half of 1% extra taxing power against real estate which you oppose, or get some other special taxes or some additional contributions from the federal or state government. There's no other way in which I can get that money. It isn't there. You've conceded it's not there. Now, Mr. Mayor, these five departments that are coming before you are not necessarily the five departments in which these specific savings can be made. That isn't the point I meant. It is our opinion, and I think it was your opinion at the time, I hope it was, that if the principles implicit in the recommendations made with respect to those five departments that we surveyed were carried out and applied generally to the city, we could save $100 million, and $100 million is more than $53 million. Thank you, General. And I'll tell you something else, Mr. Mayor. I expect that Dr. Gulick and his committee appointed by you will come up with recommendations which will probably make it possible for the city to save $100 million in its operations. Wouldn't it surprise? And I say as long as that situation obtains, we should not increase appropriations over and above the billion and a quarter mark, despite the fact that the department heads say they need it. I would like to have the chance to appraise those needs and relate them to the possibilities of saving within the same department. I think that's fair. Wouldn't it surprise you if Dr. Gulick were to say that these five or most of them were right? I would be amazed. And I don't think Dr. Gulick would do it, and if he did it, I'd have a whole lot less respect for him than I have. Neither you nor I can foretell what the judgment of that committee will be, because it will be based on facts and not on our personal desires. True enough, Mr. Mayor, but I'm talking about as of today and not as of the end of the investigation. It may very well be that Dr. Gulick could say that after he's finished his investigation. Well, that's what I asked. But I thought you expected to call Dr. Gulick and ask him whether the statements that these departments were making were justified as of today. Well, Dr. Gulick wouldn't be worth the paper he was written on if he was willing to make that statement today. And he's an eminent and able expert municipal government. Colonel, let you and I not be too ridiculous. I don't suggest that Dr. Gulick would make any such statement without a factual study. Of course not. And I do hope, Colonel, that his recommendations will in no wise be based on what is known as, quote, hunch, end quote. I hope so, too. But when I tell you that I don't know the answer to a question but tell you that I have a hunch, I'm labeling it a hunch. Well, let's not go astray here. The recommendations will be made by the committee and not by any individual, whether it's Dr. Gulick or anybody else. I understand that. I understand that. And that will be based on facts. Dr. Gulick is the servant of the committee and he's directing the work of the committee as it's served. Colonel, we're very happy to have you. Just one minute. I want to correct this record, Mr. Mayor. I think Colonel Regalman said a minute ago that there's no man on this board and knows what the transfer of accruals are. Of course, no man on this board carries it in his head. But here is a published record. A published record. What's the date? Resolution adopted on February 9th, 1950, approving the transfer of salary and wage accruals for the period beginning July 1st, 1949 and ending December 31st, 1949, showing department by department. And the amount? The amount is, the total was $1,001,097,35. That's all that is left of the salary and wage accrual account after the budget modification. Well, you said there was no figures and nobody knew what they wore. Those are not the figures. And these are the ones. Those are the figures. They're printed in the minutes. Those are transfers of accruals for that period. Yes, those are the... This is not hidden from anybody, Colonel. Don't make that statement. Mr. Comptroller, those are the... That's all that's left of the wage and salary accrual account after the modifications that have been made in the budget are satisfied. Colonel, don't confuse the issue, please. You made the statement that no one on this board knew what that answer was. I don't think that's the answer. That is the answer. May I see it? I haven't seen that. All I know is that the information was refused to us. And I assume that there was some policy connection with it and didn't press the point. May I have that printed document? Sure. Why don't you look to where it is ordinarily printed, the record of the transactions of this board, February 9th? Well, I'd like very much to see it. There's another one on April 27th, this year, isn't it? The next calendar. The next calendar. Can you tell me what the total wage and salary accruals were for the year 1949-50 from any documents you've got before you? What is it? I haven't got a ball here, but here's the last one. I would want to see that before I acknowledge it. Including the next calendar item, it's $2,045,198 and to be absolutely correct, 70 cents. Colonel, I'm sorry. You just don't ask for information. Don't be sorry, Mr. Mayor. I'm not taking that as proving anything until I have a chance to examine it. All I know is that we don't get that information. It's a printed document. Sure, it's printed, but I want to know what's printed in it. Here it is. All right. Now, look, we've had a grand show, gentlemen. I've enjoyed it thoroughly. Bring on your department heads, and we'll be very glad to examine the basis upon which they're demanding increased appropriations and give you a frank, full, and honest statement regarding the propriety of it. Colonel, while we're still on the air, I want to ask you, will you be good enough to convey my respects to the Citizens' Budget Committee with a strong recommendation that if these department heads and others do make out a case for extended services as necessary, and that it does amount to some, something like $50 million, that they're pleased not to object when we again ask the legislature for the right to get 2.5% from real estate. I will convey your message to them, Mr. Mayor, with pleasure. I will convey their message to you with equal pleasure. I know the answer. So do I. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. You're listening to the budget hearings in the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall, New York, presided at by the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and the complete government of the City of New York in the Board of Estimate. Colonel Harold Riegelman was the speaker that has been before the Board since the session opened this morning. The Mayor will call the next speaker. We'd like very much to have your reaction to this broadcast because, after all, through the medium of your radio station, you, the people of the City of New York, are able to attend this meeting which the confines, the narrow confines of the City Hall would not permit. So we ask you to please let us know by mail what your reaction is. Good morning. The Mayor, ladies and gentlemen. Morning, Commissioner. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen, as I said a few minutes ago, the budget of the Department of Hospitals represents the irreducible minimum of the needs of the Department. It was prepared with the full realization that it had to be realistic and that there are other City agencies performing vital functions and that there's a ceiling to what the City fathers may spend, so it was paired to the bone before it was presented. Reflected in this budget are a number of programs to which this Administration is giving its full encouragement and support. They are of interest to the entire country for they point the way to improved care of the sick. I have referenced, first of all, to the program for the revitalization of the outpatient services of the Department. We aim, in this particular program, to render the same high quality of care and the outpatient service as we do inside the hospital. What it actually means is that it will also save hundreds of beds because we may be able, if we have that very high quality care in the outpatient service, if we have prompt diagnostic and therapeutic service there, we'll be able to treat many patients on an ambulatory basis and thus save them a period of hospitalization. Another program that's very important is our extension of hospital care into the home of the patients. This, we believe, of the greatest of value. It's a technique which was tried out in our department. And we have today over 1,200 patients on home care, which actually translated into hospital beds means that we're saving as of today a hospital of approximately 1,300 to 1,400 beds. It's a program that we intend to extend. And another very important thing which will require quite a lot of personnel is the breaking of the bottlenecks in X-ray and laboratory services. You know that medicine has made phenomenal strides forward and our X-ray departments and laboratory services haven't kept up with those strides. We have to increase the number of technicians in these laboratories. We have to increase the clerical help. We have to increase, we have to improve the equipment. We have to expand all of these services. Now those are bottlenecks because at the present time in some hospitals a patient has to wait two or three weeks let's say for a gastrointestinal series that should be done the same day that it's ordered because of the tremendous bottleneck in those services. As a result of these bottlenecks patients stay in the hospital on duly long. Their hospitalization is prolonged and you know we are suffering now from a terrific overcrowding of all of our hospital facilities and we have to do all of these things in order to reduce the patient load and to save beds and aside from that we have to break these bottlenecks and x-ray and laboratory services in order to provide the prompt diagnostic care that the patient has every right to expect and it's at this very point that I'd like to say something that Mr. Colonel Regalman brought up. He talked about not filling jobs promptly as a method of saving money. Well when jobs are not filled promptly in the department of hospitals it's reflected in patients staying in their beds occupying beds longer than they should because if we don't fill a stenographer's job let's say promptly in the x-ray department it means that the x-ray report doesn't get down promptly to the physician. It may be delayed two or three days. The doctor doesn't know what's wrong with the patient and the patient stays in the hospital longer. So it's very important to fill these jobs promptly and actually to have many more people than we now have in our laboratory and x-ray services. Commissioner, pardon me for interrupting at this point. This home care program is being developed isn't it? That's right. And it calls for an educational program both for people generally and personnel. That's right, sir. And as a part of that educational program $5,000 was taken to make an educational picture which is still being used for educational purposes in this particular branch of your work. There are requests from all over the country for that five-minute film on home care. Now, Colonel Riggleman in this famous report of his, this criticism, says the following. He states that the transfer of $5,000 from the home care program for this purpose was a diversion and poor budgeting. Was it a diversion? No. It was a part and parcel of your home care program, wasn't it? Not only that, Mr. Mayor, but if $50,000 had been spent for that purpose, it would have been well spent. And it would be a part of the home care program that you're trying to promote within the department. It's a very necessary part of the home care program. Thank you very much. I'm sorry to interfere. Now, another important program that was given impetus by this administration is the rehabilitation service which is being developed in our hospitals. First started on a demonstration basis at Bellevue, now extending slowly to other hospitals as people are trained. It's being, actually, what we're doing now is we're training people at Bellevue Hospital, and those people go all over the country. They don't stay with us because there's such a tremendous demand throughout the nation for people trained in these rehabilitative services. It's been extended to Goldwater Memorial Hospital, and here again is where these additional people pay great dividends. At the Goldwater Memorial Hospital, we have patients who have been hospitalized for 10 years and more. But with this rehabilitation program, it's been demonstrated that provided you approach these patients with sufficient zeal and give them personalized care, you can actually take patients who have been bedridden for 10 years and put them back on their feet and send them home. That's Dr. Rusk's program. That's the program that's spark-plugged by Dr. Rusk at Bellevue Hospital. One of the best programs we have. That's right. We're slowly extending it from hospital to hospital. And then this program for the care of the prematures, which is being extended. Premature babies have been neglected for many, many years. There are many things that can be done to make it possible for them to live, and those things are being done at the present time. We have five premature centers under construction, and we need additional personnel in order to be able to man them properly. Now that is something that was commenced in this administration. That's right. It was begun by this administration. We started first with an ambulance, a special ambulance, run as a partnership by the Department of Hospitals and the Department of Health. We began to improve the various premature services, and now we are actually building five large premature services. We are being assisted somewhat there under the Hilberton Act with federal funds. This is a new service within the Department of Hospitals. It's a completely new service. So that every penny that you spend for this is an additional expenditure over and above what you ordinarily need. That is entirely right. And that will still have to be expanded, won't it? It will have to be expanded, but here it will be reflected in the actual saving of a life because these little newborns weighing less than five pounds if they're permitted to stay in a hospital that's not prepared to care for them or has to stay at home because there are no facilities for them are practically doomed to death. But, Dr. Kogel, what the public listening in would like to know is number one, is this program for premature babies a new program within the Department of Hospitals? You say it is. Is it a program that will have to be expanded still further? You say it is. Then, obviously, all of this will cost additional money. Now, the only question before us, and this is the one, as I take it, that you're posing to this board, shall we let the infants die or provide the necessary money to keep them alive? Isn't that it? That is, frankly, the question, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Doctor. Now, the next important item is we're trying to improve the nursing and the dietary care in our hospitals. Now, we have many unskilled people working on the nursing service as a result of the nursing shortage. That requires more supervisory help to supervise the unskilled workers. In order to get more nurses, we have to provide incentives for those that work in the afternoon and for those that work at night. We have to provide incentives for those that work on tuberculosis services or psychiatric services or other hazardous services. In order to save the time of the nurse, this administration has, for the first time, provided such people as ward clerks to do the clerical duties of the nurse, as ward messengers to do the messenger work of the nurse. They provided additional hospital helpers to do the housekeeping work that was done by the nurse. You see, in order to save as much of the skilled nursing time for the patient, we've had to take away that work which a nurse did or is doing which can't be done by others. And we started this demonstration first in five hospitals and now it's being extended to all the hospitals of the department. We need considerable strengthening of our dietary services and it's being done and we hope that it will be extended under the present budget. Another very important program that is underway is the development in each one of our hospitals of a modern anesthesia service. You know, surgery has made tremendous strides forward. Surgeons do the most daring surgical procedures and without any mortality. But they have to have good teamwork. They have to have excellent anesthesia service. We can no longer rely on the old type nurse anesthetists. We have to have expert physicians who are trained in anesthesia and that takes money. Now, we're also... What you're talking about here, doctor, is the patient, the indigent patient, and what you're asking this Board of Estimate to do is to provide the money with which to make it possible to save the life of that indigent patient. That's entirely correct, Mr. Mayor. You began in our first administration with a budget of $37 million. Before the end of that administration, doing these things, we had brought the budget up to $77 million. Now, you have in this one upwards of $80 million. And you say that to do a real job for the needy-seek in our city hospitals, you need more money than that $80 million. How much do you need more? We need approximately $99 million, Mr. Mayor. And that is money earmarked to save human life? That is correct. Doctor, have you some doctors, persons interested in hospitalization here that you would like to call and permit them to leave? I have some distinguished physicians here, people who are interested in our hospitals that I very much would like to call for them to say a few words in support of our budget. I have here Dr. Pastore, the executive director of the Hospital Council of Greater New York. I have Monsignor John F. Curry, the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, Dr. Knorton, the executive secretary of the Greater New York Hospital Association, Mr. Drolet, the assistant executive director of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, and I have some presidents of our medical boards. You know, we have over 7,000 physicians who work in our hospitals. They're the outstanding experts in the city of New York, and I have the presidents of the medical boards of some of our hospitals who've kindly consented to come here. I have Dr. Cutler, the president of the medical board of the Goldwater Memorial Hospital, Dr. Louis T. Wright of the Harlem Hospital, Dr. Joseph J. Teneper. Dr. Joseph, he's the president of the medical board of the Kings County Hospital. I believe Dr. Amendola had to leave. Dr. John Duff, the president of the medical board of the Morrisania City Hospital, and Dr. Eli Rubin, the president of the medical board of the Seton Hospital. Would you call these gentlemen and make it possible for them to make their statements and then leave? I'm sure they're busy. All right, sir, would you like me to call on them right now? You'll present them to the board, if you will, please. I believe I'll call on our physicians first because they may have to go. Dr. Cutler, would you like to come here first? Thank you. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen, I represent the physicians in whose charge is the care of the sick, poor of New York. President of the medical board of the Goldwater Hospital. We care for the patients who come to us from the city home and those indigent patients who have been hospitalized for the most part in other municipal hospitals. They are the people who have come to the end oftentimes of a long life, sometimes of hardship, and who are now seeking our care because they are unable to care for themselves. In our daily work, it is necessary to carry out to the very best of our ability the scientific diagnostic methods and methods of therapy, methods of treatment, which will best benefit those patients and which will do credit to the services that we represent. I think it should be understood, Mr. Mayor, that the services of these physicians whom I represent is given freely to the city and to the patients. There is no cost, no charge, for the services that these physicians and surgeons render day in and day out to the city's sick poor. What we ask of you... Doctor, have you... Have you looked over the budget proposed by Dr. Kogel? Are you familiar with his budget? I'm familiar with it in its general terms. I'm not familiar with its detail. Do you believe that Dr. Kogel is right when he said that he needs for the purposes of the general service $99 million for this year's budget? I believe he needs substantially more than he has had at the present time. I believe that $99 million would certainly not more than cover the necessary services which we encounter from day to day. Well, thank you, Doctor, very much, sir. The next... Doctor... Doctor Tenepper... Doctor Tenepper is the president of the medical board of the Kings County Hospital and the chairman of the advisory council of the Department of Hospitals. Morning, Doctor. Are you familiar with the budget amount allocated for the Department of Hospitals? Yes, I have talked there over, Mr. Mayor, with our commissioner and I think that... Will I say he's been treated meagerly? Yes, but would you say that when Dr. Kogel says that he... that the essential services of our city hospitals would require $99 million of a budget, that he's correct in that figure? I think that's a minimum which you should give him. Thank you, sir, very much. That's the point we want brought on. The thing that I wish to emphasize is that I'm here just as much representing the medical board as I am, the indigent, sick, helpless people in bed. Yes, sir. And that's something which I think this board should keep in mind, that when they are cutting budgets in the hospital department, they are cutting the throats of some of these poor individual people for whom we cannot get the help which we should get, which Doctor just described. Well, Dr. Kenefer, so that the public who are listening in will not be misinformed or gather a wrong impression from your statement. It is true that this administration found your hospital budget $37 million in 1945. It is true that in 1949, isn't it, that the budget was $77 million. Yes. A jump from $37 million to $77 million. There was no cutting there. Now, this budget runs upwards of $80 million, so there is no cutting here. But the point we want to be enlightened on is Dr. Kogel right in your opinion when he says that he needs $19 million more than what he's given in this budget. I think that's very definitely so. And I think if you, if those who are interested would look it over, of course, as Colonel Regalman said, if we had an epidemic and all the employees died and all the patients died, then I presume we could, we could reduce it. Well, of course, let's not, let you and I not play hunches. No, no, no hunches. No hunches. But there are epidemics. Yes. There are 21,502 patients in the hospitals. You talk, we talk about increases in the budget. We also had an increase of one million days in 49. So that that, that's readily. Yes, as I recall the figures when we came in in 1945, you had a census, a hospital census of about 16,000. Last year, you had a hospital census of over 21,500. That's right. Is that correct? That's correct. And we had one million more days hospital care for individuals. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. Our census yesterday was 21,660. Well, my memory is still good. Very good. Monsignor Curry will be the next speaker. He's the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association. Your Honor and gentlemen, representing the Greater New York Hospital Association, I speak for more than 100 voluntary hospitals in the Greater New York. and we intelligently, having known of the Commissioner Kogel's budget before its submission, intelligently, we endorse every word of his statement on behalf of his department. We know that a strongly supported, well-financed hospital department of the city of New York can be a strong partner to our own voluntary hospital system, especially when the question concerns itself with the quality of medical care. So we are glad and proud to endorse his $99 million budget, if at all possible. Thank you, sir, very much. Dr. Louis T. Wright, the president of the board of the Harlem Hospital. Your Honor, gentlemen, I approve Commissioner Kogel's budget, and I want to say that Harlem Hospital has improved more under the present administration than at any other time. Thank you, sir, very much. Dr. John Duff, the president of the medical board of the Marisania City Hospital. Mr. Mayor, the generally accepted functions of the professional staff of a hospital have been broadened considerably lately. They include primarily and first of all, the proper care, as the mayor has pointed out, of the indigent sick of this city. Also calls for the proper instruction of the interns and the residents studying in our hospitals. But perhaps more, or is of great importance, is the third function of the professional staff, the care and help to the community. Thanks to the attitude of the present administration, the hospitals, the hospital staff, have been able to provide more for the poor, sick people of this city than ever before. But the demands are constantly increasing. And one of the reasons that they are increasing is that the length of life, the span of life, is being increased too. We now can expect under ordinary conditions to live for 67 years. and it's amazing how many old people we have in our hospitals. We're going to have more as time goes on, thank God. The Department of Hospitals of this city, I think, has the highest ideals. It's given the most encouragement, the most splendid cooperation by the administration that we've possibly given to any Department of Hospitals in any city in this country. Thank you, Doctor, very much. Dr. Relay Rubin, the President of the Medical Board of the Seton Hospital. Dr. Relay Rubin. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen, I work with indigent tuberculous patients, poor patients with advanced pulmonary tuberculosis. That is my major work. And I can only speak that if we had a certain program invoked, as we have at Morrisania City Hospital, where all patients admitted are taken or have x-rays examinations on admissions to find if they have or they have not tuberculosis, we would have to probably increase greatly, much more than was asked, the number of beds for tuberculosis. To cite just one example and take very little of your time, at Morrisania City Hospital, when we take routine admissions of patients admitted, we find as many patients who do not know they have tuberculosis as those who come in with tuberculosis. And we're coming into a position where we dread finding tuberculosis because we don't know where to put the tuberculosis. So it's a case where ignorance, well, we just can't find them, can't find beds for them. Right now, they're at Morrisania City Hospital, 60 patients with advanced tuberculosis, almost a little sanatorium in its own right. And they stay there four, five, and six months waiting to get into seat in other city hospitals. I just want to make one more statement before I go, and I think that'll cover the entire subject. In Dr. Kogel himself, we have such a wonderful personality, such a devout worker, sincere man, you understand, that you'll have to take everything he says as gospel truth, and we'll stand by him. Thank you, Dr. Kogel, the public listening in to Dr. Rubin should be told what your plans are to meet the increased number of tuberculosis cases that we know are in the city. Yes, the administration has quite extensive plans for tuberculosis, for the care of tuberculosis patients in the city of New York. You know, in June of this year, at least we hope June, by the latest in July, we will take back the Neponset Beach Hospital in the Rockaways, which is now under the jurisdiction of the United States Public Health Service. That will give us 300 additional beds. That will give us 300 additional beds. That's right. On January 1st of 1951, we hope to be able to get into the new 570-bed tuberculosis hospital on the grounds of Kings County. that's actually new construction. And in addition to that, under the $150 million program, there's a lot of tuberculosis construction being planned. First, the East Harlem General Hospital, which is a replacement of the Metropolitan Hospital, will have 300 beds devoted to tuberculosis. On Welfare Island, there's a 1,500-bed hospital that's going up. It's intended ultimately to house 1,000 chronic disease patients and 500 tuberculosis patients, but initially all 1,500 beds will be used for tuberculosis patients. Thank you, Doctor. I think the public listening in will be very pleased to know that we're not collecting that. Dr. Coggle, Mr. Cashmore has a question. Just Mr. Cashmore. In 1945, in your hospital service, you had many patients with paratonetus operations that were necessary of all different types. And through the use of penicillin and streptomycin and oreomycin, you've been able to cut down the length of time they've had to stay in the hospitals. Is that not so? Yes, Mr. Cashmore, but it's an interesting blessing that the antibiotics have produced. By taking care of the acute infections, they've made it possible for people to live longer and people who are older develop chronic diseases which last for a longer period of time. But the antibiotics have actually produced miraculous results. For instance, they've almost eliminated such a specialty as ear, nose, and throat. You very rarely see a mastoid now, which used to be very common in the old days. You very rarely see peritonsillar abscesses or these bad infections of the throat. So much so that ear, nose, and throat men are going into plastic surgery as a specialty. Well, the reason, the reason, doctor, the reason, doctor, I asked that question is because in those days the people had to stay a great deal longer in the hospitals than they do today. And at that time, your budget in 1945 was $37 million. Your budget today is $80 million. So even though these people stay a shorter length of time, this administration has increased your budget from $37 to $80 million. That is correct. So never before in the history of this city has the taxpayer gotten such a terrific break in the hospitals as they're getting under this present city administration. Isn't that true? That's entirely correct. There isn't a medication. There isn't a new substance that's used was $37 million. Your budget today is $80 million. So even though these people stay a shorter length of time, this administration has increased your budget from $37 to $80 million. That is correct. So never before in the history of this city has the taxpayer gotten such a terrific break in the hospitals as they're getting under this present city administration. Isn't that true? That's entirely correct. There isn't a medication. There isn't a new substance that's useful for the patient that is not used and that is not readily obtained if it can be helpful to the patient. I'd like to make one point about this reducing the day stay. Now, in the old days, a case of tuberculosis meningitis would be fatal. They were practically 100% fatal. Now, many cases of tuberculosis meningitis live. Well, they used to die in two or three weeks. Now, they stay in the hospital five or six months because they're able to be carried on. In the old days, a case of pneumococytic meningitis would come in and die within two or three days. Now, they're able to walk out of the hospital in two weeks, but they stayed two weeks instead of the two or three days that we had before. What's your plea is? That not only would you have enough money to take care of those who are now there, but you want to be sure that every single indigent case that needs that help and that knocks on the hospital door will be admitted and will be able to be served by the hospital department. That's why you're asking for the $99 million. That's right, Mr. Mayor. You don't want one single needy person in this city to go without hospital care where it's needed. That is entirely correct. Thank you very much. If you have a vacancy in your department, naturally, you want to fill it, don't you? We want to fill it as promptly as possible. Okay. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to give Dr. Pastore, John B. Pastore, the executive director of the hospital council of greater New York, an opportunity to say a few words. We'd be very doctor for coming and thank you for serving on the committee to help us to find out how to best spend the $150 million of hospital construction. Very grateful to you for your cooperation. Thank you. As you know, our organization is a voluntary organization and interested primarily in the coordination and planning for hospital facilities. I know that you know, Mr. Mayor, but perhaps some of the public does not, that all of the plans that have been developed in the Department of Hospitals and by the city have been very thoroughly reviewed over the past two years. Not only the new buildings that you hope to build under the $150 million program, but every single hospital under your system was carefully analyzed with the cooperation of the Department of Hospitals during the past two years. And we are proud that the city of New York is developing its hospital systems along the master plan, which the council formulated four years ago. That, I think, would assure the public and the citizens that at least you're moving in the right direction and hoping to accomplish a great service. I would like to make one comment in a different direction as far as the need for the large budget. The previous speakers have emphasized the saving in life and the need for medical care. care. I would like to put it in another way and point out this fact, that in hospitals, it is difficult to measure efficiency by the number of personnel which are employed in relation to beds or patients. patients. It may work out in inverse ratio because if there is an inadequate number of personnel, it means that all of the diagnostic ancillary services are delayed. The patient remains in the hospital one, two, or three more days, which increases, after all, the total cost to the community or the city. But even more important, it makes need for additional hospital beds to take care of the load. And so there is a relationship between the operating expenses and the total capital investment which will be necessary. By increasing the operating budget so that patients can be diagnosed quickly and discharged early, you will find that you'll have a greater saving in capital investment which in turn will require operating expenses. So that I would like to urge serious consideration on that point because if that type of efficiency is not obtained, I am sure that you appreciate that even the $150 million will not be enough to build the hospital facilities which the indigent patients in this city require. Thank you very much. Dr. Pastorea, that is something that I've been looking into personally. And I agree with you that in the question of hospital administration, to have a patient lying in a bed, occupying a bed there, and waiting for two days, five days a week, ten days until the laboratory tests are made before the diagnosis can be arrived at, that that could well be a waste of bed space that could be saved by having a better equipped technical setup that would bring in these tests quicker. That's what you mean, isn't it? That's right. Thank you, sir, very much. Quite well. Now, Mr. Mayor, I have one more person. Mr. Godias Strolley, the Assistant Executive Director of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association. Thank you very much. Your Honor and gentlemen, of course, we are extremely concerned with the aspect of tuberculosis in the community. And I understand almost one fourth of all the beds in the department of hospitals are occupied by these patients. But I'd like to address myself to one item which perhaps will answer the question raised by Colonel Riegelman as to specific needs not met. Dr. Rubin just told you of the results of x-ray patients admitted to Marsenia Hospital. Our association so believes in the value of that. And I plead that the same service be rendered in the other city hospital that we have furnished at our own expense the cost of that machine to do the work and provided the technicians. So, therefore, there is little doubt, certainly in our mind, as to the value and the necessity of that service being rendered by all of the municipal institutions. Not only it finds cases, but it finds them early so that at the tail end you have a useful citizen and not a dead body. Now, I would like to add one more point. For almost 30 years in this community, through the courtesy of the Department of Hospital, I've had access to the report of the tuberculosis institution, the Department of Hospital. only last night again I was reading that during the past five years, while the Department has taken care of an increasing number of tuberculosis patients, a larger number have come out alive. The gain in lives saved in the number returning home is measurable. I think, I'm speaking from memory at the moment, that at Triborough Hospital alone, whereas 66% went out alive in, even though they had that most serious condition of tuberculosis in 1945, in 1949 it had risen to 75%. Our association, as you know, has a very broad representation. Any of you that purchase Christmas seals are the ones that have expressed the value of anti-tuberculosis work. I don't know of any agency that does so more efficiently and that could expend money that would mean life saved than the Department of Hospitals in New York, Your Honor. Thank you, sir, very much. Is that all, Dr. Cogel? That is all, Mr. Mayor. I'm sure that I can leave the budget in your hands and in the hands of the Board of Estimates. You've always, you've been fully aware of the needs of the Department, you are fully aware of their needs, and I'm sure you'll act properly by us. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And thank you, gentlemen, for coming here to help us out. Should we, uh, the Fire Department, Chief Murphy? Yes, sir. Could we not continue with the taxpayers' hearing? The Department has 30 of the departments to be here all year. Now, some of us find it often just as much as time as time as it may have to be when our land falls to later. Is there any possibility that we're switching the arrangement of some changes so that the Department may be heard later? You see, Joe, uh, omniscience is not given to human beings. What does that mean? It means knowing everything under the sun. And, I am not one of those that claim to have it. There are many people here who've got to be heard. But I do want to, uh, know that something that has a , it means knowing everything under the sun. And, I am not one of those that claim to have it. got to be heard. But I do want a clear-cut statement from five departments who have insisted that they need more money than is allocated to them in this budget clearly stated for the record. And I don't want anyone to interfere with that presentation. Immediately after, we'll go ahead and give you all the time you want. Some of us are not in the room, Mr. Klein, and we have an opportunity a little later. If you'll leave word, we'll take care of that. What time are you going to adjourn, Mr. Mayor? We'll leave at one o'clock. I'll hear the fire department now, and after that, we'll adjourn for lunch. Chief Murphy. Yes, sir. Sorry. Mr. Mayor, bring the uniform force up to operating strength. We need 600 more firemen. Is Colonel Riggleman in the room? Mr. Mayor, I'd like to say this. It's regrettable that the Citizens Budget Commission can sit at a desk and give this board of estimate a 25-page report in connection with how to run the city of New York. It took an hour and 20 minutes to do it. And right after that, you had the most enlightening discussion on how one department out of about 100 departments, the city hospitals should be run. And he had eminent physicians from all over the city of New York here. And Colonel Riggleman, after he expresses his views of the Citizens Budget Commission, can leave and not get any of the important facts on how to run a city or a department. And it's regrettable that those men are called first, and as soon as they're called and after they're heard and they get their name in the newspaper, then they're able to leave when they could pick up the facts which would go to help them show us how to run the city if they can. Well, I don't think Colonel Riggleman was too happy over his experience. Chief Murphy. Mr. Mayor, to bring our uniform force up to operating strength, we need 600 more firemen, 108 more lieutenants, one more captain, 20 more battalion chiefs, and seven deputy chiefs. That's for the uniformed personnel. Now, we have a serious thing here in our hose situation. We have 8,190 lengths of hose over 10 years. Now, the normal life of hose is eight years. Rubber lining of hose, the inside of hose is all rubber lined, and rubber deteriorates with age. I thought we allowed $150,000 for hose. Yes, but we were looking for $518,000. You want $580,000? $518,000, yeah, to bring us up to a pretty safe margin. Well, if you've got $150,000, Frank, at the moment, for this year, that would help for replacement and give you next year to... I'm afraid that wouldn't give... We had a very severe... Wouldn't that be all right? No, that wouldn't be sufficient for us, Mr. Mayor. All right. What's your total amount for manpower and equipment? Oh, manpower and equipment and money? And money, over and above the allocation in this budget. $518,000. That'll be $2,750,000, Mr. Mayor. Why do you need 600 more firemen? Bring us up to full operating strength. We need six, seven men on the high-hazard sections for all wood apparatus, and six men on the outlying sections. Are there any new firehouses planned for new developments? There is one up for 250th Street and a Union Turnpike. How about Queens? Well, if we get that out there, if we get that built out there, we'll be in very... Queens would never need any more new houses out there. We need two new houses down on Staten Island. There's still two volunteer companies down there on Staten Island, and we need two new houses down there. At the present time, you have rolling to fires five firemen on an apparatus? No, we do not... How many? No. How many do you have of the average? Four is generally tops. How many should you have? In the high-hazard section, seven, and in the outlying section, six. Seven and six. That's right. Well, do you have five and four now? Generally, yes. Five and four? Five and four, yes. But you're a man short in both categories. Well, two men... Your total would be better than 600 firemen, wouldn't it? That's right. The cost of that a year would be how much? About two million? About that. We have two million. Around two million. Two thousand, yes. Now, you're asking for how much? We're asking for two million and 172,000 for personnel. And how much are you asking for equipment? Now, the equipment we have... Outside of the hose. We have 39 apparatus that's antiquated. They have two-wheel brakes, chain-driven, and solid tires. Now, I believe that pumping engines today runs around $15,000 or $16,000 each. So those should be replaced as quickly as possible. It's a dangerous situation to be running around the streets of New York with apparatus with two-wheel brakes and solid tires, chain-driven. Is there anything else, Chief? No, that's all. There are hook and others. We need four new ones. It'll bring us pretty well up to date. Thank you very much. Thank you, Chief. Does Mr. Crane wish to be heard? Mr. Crane, would you like to have Mr. Crane say? I'll find a problem always, Mr. Mayor. Do you want to be heard, hon? I have a statement which conforms to some extent to the feelings of the fire commissioner. Of course, each of us have been mutually concerned, and we've been discussing the problem now for several months. And I'd like to read the statement, Mr. Mayor. If you've got it, submit it, John. Don't read any statements. All right. Then suppose I discuss... Submit your statement to us, and we'll give it consideration. All right. However, on the apparatus, the department requested $1,407,000 to replace apparatus, particularly the 37 pumpers, which are obsolete. And actually, we can be assured of the fact that for the next year, most of these 37 companies will be out of service or on their way out of service when they're most needed at fires. Have you got that in your memorandum? Pretty much so. Submit the memorandum. We'll look into it. And thanks very much. Commissioner Hilliard, you have some... I have a few words, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, and a few people that would like to say a few words also. All right. Thank you. Present them. I should like to begin by saying that what the Department of Welfare has requested is what the Department of Welfare requires. It isn't something that we want. It isn't something that we desire. It is a minimum essential which is required. As we saw it in December of 1949, when this budget was first prepared, the total numbers of cases then receiving relief were going to increase at a given rate. And we estimated at that time that that rate would probably be about 2,000 per month up to July 1st, at which time when the disability benefits law becomes effective, the increase for the remaining 12 months might be approximately 1,100 a month. On that basis, and with only allowances based on current standards and on current personnel requirements, it was estimated that the Department would require $204,733,000. This executive budget has provided $193,000,000 or $11,347,000 less than the minimum which was estimated as of about the first of the year. Now, since the first of the year, our expectations that the caseload would increase at the rate of 2,000 a month have not been realized, or I maybe should say have been more than realized. For in January, the rise was 2,068 cases, close to our estimated 2,000. In February, however, the jump was 3,500 cases. So already by February, our estimated 2,000 per month was by the boards, and we were rising at a higher rate. I said this morning in answer to his honor's question that our requirement for next year would be between $11.5 million and $21 million. If we get an extra 1,500 cases a month, that means $10 million more than even we had requested in our budget. I said, gentlemen, that these are not amounts that we want. These are minimum essentials which the people of this city, who are unable to maintain themselves, require. And I am not insensible to the requirement of Section 131 of the Social Welfare Law, which specifies that it is my duty, within the limits of funds available, to provide adequately for those who are unable to maintain themselves. So the Department, on the basis of no increase in standards whatsoever, requires a minimum of $11.5 million in addition to that which is provided in the executive budget. I should point out, and I wish Colonel Riegelman were here to hear, that it has been necessary for us to come to this Board of Estimate, to the Budget Director, and request a modification of the present budget, a modification that no doubt would astound him, a modification of $10,980,000, which is the deficit in welfare expenditures for this current fiscal year. Maybe we should have foreseen that. The fact is that it was not foreseen a year or 18 months ago when our earlier budget was evolved. You're foreseeing it now, though. We're not only foreseeing it, we're right up face to it. And we either receive it or we shut down for the month of June. That's the way it works out. So I cite that as an illustration of a modification that is indispensably necessary. We therefore, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, are governed by caseloads. People have been coming to us at an increased rate, and they've been coming simply because there are more people unemployed in New York City at this point than at any time since the war. Currently, I believe the figure is 350 people out of jobs in New York City. It's the difference between working on facts the way you do and looking at a crystal ball the way the Colonel does. Isn't that it? Well, we're trying to see facts, and we're trying to see a little bit ahead. And I might say, Mr. Mayor, that we don't see anything too encouraging as we look ahead. Now, it has been recommended, and we support the recommendations, and we expect to present them very shortly, that certain of the standards of the Department of Welfare be increased in order that they conform to the best and most adequate provision that can be made for people who require assistance. That's that study that you have just completed. That's correct. That's the group that you brought together about two, three weeks ago. It should report to you, Your Honor, before the week is concluded. I should point out also that the present budget gives us less, or gives us $2 million less for old people than we require as a minimum for old people. It gives us $2,384,000 less for children than we require to provide for these children in the aid-to-dependent children program. It gives us about $3,800,000. Say that again. Say that again. About the aid-to-dependent children. $2,384,000 less than the minimum amount we estimate to be necessary to provide aid-to-dependent children. That is the difference between the estimate which we submitted and the amount provided in the executive budget. The amount provided for... Now, wait, wait, wait. What will happen to the dependent children if you didn't get the money? Well, it would be... We'd face two alternatives, General. One is what? We'd either have to decide that we would make a cut at an early point... What would that mean, that cut? Sir? What would the cut mean to the children? Well, it would be on the basis of our present allowances... She'd give the children less. It would... She's very decided. She'd take it away from the children. That's what you mean, isn't it? I was trying to do a little quick calculation and tell you how much in terms of percentage. I just wanted to get it so whoever's listening in here will understand what we're talking about. A cut would mean that instead of giving the children what they normally should have, that you'd take it away from them. You'd cut them about 5% if you cut over the whole year. Okay. Or maybe they could just stop eating for the month of May or June. That would be another solution. Now, in addition to amounts for public assistance, this department is operating a program of daycare for children of working mothers. This program has been an expanding program. We were given $2,884,000 last year. We submitted an estimate of $3,600,000 for this year due principally to the fact that new daycare centers were coming into being in the new housing projects. How much was the additional daycare center program? What was the... We asked for $3,600,000. We received $3,060,000. And what was that? An increase of how many dollars? About $160,000. Over the present year, but a substantial amount less than the minimum amount we estimated to be necessary. We most earnestly request your consideration of that item. Now, those daycare centers, even though you are talking about them, and even though you usually get a contribution in your budget from the state... The state gives us not one dime, John, for daycare... The daycare center is one that the state did have and did contribute to, but did away with. They pulled out... And the city and its budget continued it. That's correct. So this is something that even though you're the commissioner of welfare, and even though the Department of Welfare is supposed to get this contribution from the state and federal government, the daycare center program is essentially in 100% a city program. It is entirely 100% a city program. Back when the state dropped it. Isn't that right? That's correct. All right, let's... Now, I must say, General, that the sponsoring agencies of the daycare centers do provide a small percentage. I believe it's about 12 to 15% of the cost of operating the center, and they manage and they operate with the funds that we provide. In the matter of personnel, our request was cut approximately $1 million. Now, our request for personnel wasn't just added personnel that we felt we wanted. It was personnel made necessary by the increase in our caseload. As we add 75 cases to our caseload, we need one more worker. How many... What would you get... What budget did you have last year? Personal, personal services... Everything, the whole budget. $173 million, roughly. What is your budget this year? $193 million, an increase of almost $21 million. $21 million increase this year. Now, you still say that's not enough? It's $11 million, four short of our minimum estimated requirement. What you thought you should get, you believe that you ought to get in this budget, $32 million. Right, that's exactly. By the way, were you terribly excited because a Ford car for the Chief Justice of the Municipal Court wasn't bought last year instead of this year? No, Your Honor, I was not in the slightest. Did you hear how the Colonel got excited about that item? Didn't excite you at all, did it? No, sir. You were talking about $32 million. I'm more worried about some kids and about some programs and some basic essentials in this city than I am whether we buy a Ford this year, next year. Yeah. I thought so. I thought you mightn't have been as excited about the Ford car as Colonel Riggleman. Go ahead, Commissioner. Just one more word on personnel. And it may offend the Colonel that we may ask for a modification of budget and connection with personnel. We have not submitted any suggested revision with reference to salary rates. The matter is being studied. It's being studied with representatives of labor. There's to be a meeting tomorrow. I want to correct you on that, Commissioner. Colonel Riggleman didn't say that he was against modification. What he said is he was against modification where they were foreseeable. Where he didn't make himself clear was how you could foresee these things. That's where he didn't make himself clear whether you should use a yardstick and if you did, what was it? Or should you consult a fortune teller? He didn't say which. Now tell us how you're going to approach that. We have been conducting a study. We have been seeking and getting the advice of responsible labor organizations now that we're limited to such types of organizations. And we expect to meet tomorrow to evolve a final report at which time we may be in a position to foresee accurately what may be involved and what may be entailed. I have asked several people to speak briefly better than I could on some of these subjects to the members of the board. I have first a member of the advisory committee to the Department of Welfare, Reverend John H. Johnson, if he is still here. Dr. Johnson. Thank you, Dr. General. I'd like to say, gentlemen, that the welfare needs in the community where I live and work, and I think that's true of the city as a whole, are on the increase, not on the decrease. Every day I'm finding new people coming to me asking for assistance, self-respecting, self-supporting people who can't find a job. They're not all chronic reliefers. And I don't think any of you gentlemen are unaware of the fact that if there is an economic setback on the way that the people in my community feel it first. I've been a member of the advisory committee since 1932. High standards of relief are being maintained. In fact, they're so high that some people are complaining about it. And I think it would be tragic if the advances and gains that have been made under this administration are lost. And I hope that, General, you and the other members of this board will favorably consider the request that the $11 million which has been deleted from this budget for the welfare department will be reconsidered. Dr. Johnson, we can give you this assurance that whether it's in this budget or not, no needy case will be neglected. Thank you very much, General. I hope you can carry that message to those that depend upon you to voice their case before this board. Thank you very much. Thanks, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to ask Mr. Victor Ritter who is a member, distinguished member of the advisory committee on the ages recently appointed, I believe it was last October, by Your Honor. That's right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Ritter. Mr. Ritter, Mayor and gentlemen, I'm appearing here because I've been, as you know, a member of the Mayor's Advisory Committee with Commissioner Hilliard on the problems of the ages. I don't have to say that the very things that the Department of Hospital spoke about here today, the improvement in the techniques of treatments are bringing the city more and more into the position where they're going to have more old people to take care of. The increase in the life expectancy is going to simply increase this load. We want that load increased. We want to take care of these old people and have to and should. But there's no doubt about it that Commissioner Hilliard is going to face an increase in his expenses because he's just going to face an increase in the number of old people who will eventually come into the purview and the care of the city. I'm on that committee as this board may know. I was a president of the State Board of Social Welfare of the State of New York for 12 years. I was a member of that board for 24 years and I know the problem and that problem of the agent is one that the doctors are increasing for the city. We know that but the fact of the matter is that the increases in the medical skills, the increase in treatments for people have increased the life expectancy and now do and will continue to increase the number of old people that the city of New York is going to have to take care of. Thank you, Victor, very much. I'd like next to call Mr. Philip Michaels, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen. Mr. Michaels is chairman of the subcommittee on welfare of the committee, Mayor's Committee on Puerto Rican Affairs in New York City. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Commissioner. Mr. Michaels, hi. Mr. Mayor, it isn't as a member of the committee on Puerto Rican Affairs that I speak now because the problems of the Puerto Ricans aren't different from those of other citizens but when we have an assistance budget it should be humane, it should be economic, it should be understanding. Now, I very much agree with what the Mayor and the Commissioner said a short while ago that no one in need in New York will go unheard by us but therefore, I believe our budget right now should be realistic. The Commissioner has suggested that the study made by his department will indicate that before the year is over, the $11 million which we're cutting out of his budget will be needed. Why not put that in now so that the city, the people in the city will have the assurance that no one will go no need will go unmet. I want to say that I like to repeat again what too few people know, Mr. Mayor, that the Department of Welfare program of daycare centers is a job that's carried by the city and not by the state. I think people ought to know that to know the fine job that's being done by Commissioner Hillary's department. I also was delighted to hear that the Commissioner is considering revising the assistance budget. I realize, of course, there has been terrific criticism and we're delighted that you, Mr. Mayor and the Commissioner, are aware of that and are adjusting that. I do want to say this. The Department of Welfare guards their budget zealously. In my experience with the many people who come in contact with the Department of Welfare, it's a very, very rare instance when someone gets something out of the Department of Welfare, something that's unauthorized and illegal. And I think we can feel confident that the watchdogs and Commissioner Hillary's department are doing a good job of supervising their assistance budget. We ought to give them the $11 million. And just one last word. The majority of the people of the city aren't aware of the fact that the bulk of the assistance budget do not go to relief recipients. but to the aged, to the blind, and our age-to-dependent children. And if we made that clear, I think there will be a more sympathetic understanding in the press of the city, which seems to feel that whenever you raise your budget and give more money to Commissioner Hilliard, they seem to feel that the money is going to relief recipients, people who don't want to work. They comprise a very, very small part of the budget. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Well, Mr. Marcus, the critics of taking care of the needy we shall always have with us while there's human selfishness in high places. Don't worry about it. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Next, Mr. Mayor, I'd like to call on Mr. Daniel Green, who is here. He's in the Red Cross. He represents the Welfare Council, is a member of the Welfare Council's Technical Advisory Committee on Welfare Administration, which is a great help to the Department. Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Green. Your Honor, and members of the Board, we've studied Commissioner Hilliard's recommended budget, and we find it at least adequate and certainly not to be cut off by any amount to meet the needs that have, with some degree of certainty, been calculated for the ensuing year. It's recommended strongly to you that you face the reality that if you don't appropriate now, the deficit will arise to plague you because the facts and the figures month by month show that the unemployment rates will produce increasing numbers of welfare clients whose needs must be met. It is a reflection of great credit on the Department of Welfare and on the Administration, that none of these needs will be neglected, but it must be made certain that they are served properly and in the spirit and in the philosophy that Commissioner Hilliard has expressed in the budget needs he requests. It is not proper to have the door closed when the needy client knocks on it. It's closed in effect when not enough people, not enough trained and qualified people are there to answer. We urge that the consideration that may be possible be given to the restoration of that part of the budget which is missing in your executive budget. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, present also was a representative of the CIO and AFL group, Mr. Morris Yeshevitz. I believe, however, he left, he said he would file a statement with the board or he would come back. Present also are others. Ms. Charlotte Carr is here, but I understand she wants to talk on several things and I imagine it will be agreeable if she covers welfare in her other statement. I might say, Your Honor and gentlemen, a word of thanks to you for your attention to these people who have come to help us because the needy of New York, particularly the very old, the very young, the blind, those who are bewildered by a loss of job or by some other misfortune, find very, very few who will speak for them, who will speak out for them. They find, however, people who are perfectly willing to exploit them, but few who will speak out for their needs, for their requirements. We don't hear from them often. I hope you'll not be deaf to them. Thank you. Thanks very much. Now, ladies and gentlemen, an adjournment for lunch to 2.30. You've just heard the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, as he presided in the Board of Estimate room in City Hall at the first in the series of hearings that will be conducted for three days on the subject of the budget before the Board of Estimate. Today is devoted to civic organizations, and tomorrow will be devoted to education, higher education, and the libraries, and Friday will be devoted to city employee groups. In the order of the presentation today, Colonel Riegelman, representing the Citizens Budget Commission, filed his report before the Board, in the course of which the Mayor called on five of the City Departments, hospitals, fire, sanitation, police, and welfare. And then, in the order named, we heard Commissioner Kogel of the Department of Hospital. Commissioner Kogel called five representatives, outstanding medical consultants, and experts who handled this problem, particularly the problem of medicine and doctor and hospital for the city poor. And in this outline of testimony, we heard the great demand that is made on the Department of Hospitals and the necessity for modification of budget in these matters. By then, the Fire Department, Chief Murphy, was called, and he outlined just exactly why it was necessary to modify the budget and meet growing requirements of the Fire Department. Mr. Kramer, representative of the Underwriters Association, filed a report. It was lengthy, and he said he was perfectly satisfied to file the report which could be studied by the Mayor and the members of the Board of Estimate. And then, finally, Commissioner Hilliard of the Department of Welfare called five experts in order that they may outline to the Board their actual personal contact with the poor of the city. One of the speakers bringing out the very fine point indeed that one of the great responsibilities of the Department of Welfare was the aged, the sick, and the young children. And under no circumstances was the amount of welfare money utilized for what we call mere relief in itself concerning unemployed or those who might not seek employment too artemously. These hearings come to you from the Board of Estimate room which, after all, is a small room and New York City is a population of 8 million people. Therefore, through the medium of your municipal broadcasting station, WNYC, you, the people of the City of New York, were able to attend these hearings. Now, you are concerned in what happens in this building and no item of city business is ever transacted without first being printed in a calendar in the matter of the Board of Estimate and the same with the City Council and public reaction and public hearings are heard on every item. Very often when you criticize government, you haven't even taken advantage of the opportunities that are always yours where government is concerned and where any act of the government concerns you. And yet, you make your statements possibly without due consideration of the fact that these public facilities are offered. In the event of today, your city radio station, WNYC, was able to bring you all the people of the City of New York right into City Hall although the capacity of the building itself would not permit any such attendance. And yet, radio, one of the greatest of communications, has brought you the entire proceedings here today. Now, as good citizens, won't you kindly inform your radio station of your interest in these programs, your advantage to be a better citizen through a better knowledge of civics, and write to your city station and let us know that we are following your wishes in bringing these very important matters to you so that under no circumstances can you claim you did not have the information because radio communication, with its great flexibility, the greatest of any in the world, is able to meet any situation anywhere in the world and particularly in this wonderful city of New York, the busiest city in the world, where something is always on the calendar in transaction concerning you, the people of the city of New York. So just please, if you don't wish to take the time to write a letter, send a card to your city station and inform us that we are cooperating with you in the way you desire that cooperation and that you as citizens understand the function of your government because you have a radio station, WNYC, to carry the picture to you when the limitations of the building itself could not in any way perform any such service. That is why we want to get a reading on the saturation of WNYC in bringing you civics in action direct from city hall in matters that concern you, the people of the city of New York. That is all for now. We'll be back at 2.30 in line with the mayor's adjournment and his statement that the luncheon period would be extended until 2.30. So be back at your microphones and understand why your city meets these situations and what it has to do to meet special situations that develop from time to time in a city of 8 million people. And now back to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This morning, the sessions today are devoted to civic organizations. Tomorrow, they will be devoted to education, higher education and libraries. And Friday, the topic will be city employees groups. The mayor of the city of New York has just rapped for order and in just a moment we hear the voice of the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Sanitation. Commissioner Moraine. Commissioner, what is the amount in the budget allocated for your department for the fiscal year beginning 1st July? $55 million. How much do you think it should be? $63 million. The difference of how much? $8 million and approximately $800,000. Will you explain why you should have an additional $8 million? Yes, sir. As you probably know, we have reorganized the department and streamlined it. We're in the process of eliminating every possible detail and assigning people to titles to fill these positions such as clakes and watchmen, telephone operators and so forth. so that every last sanitation man will be either sweeping, operating equipment or loading. But that's not enough. The streets are still littered and still dirty and we feel that we're given inadequate collection service to a large portion of this town. What would you need to give full collection service? A total of 2,649 men. Does that include, does it also include equipment? No, that's just the manpower itself. 2,600 men. That's right, sir. What is your present manpower? Exactly 9,800 men. That is for our operating setup. How long have you been with the Department of Sanitation? Uh, 28 and a half years. In that 28 and a half years, Commissioner, uh, what was the highest number of manpower men that you ever had in the Department? I believe about 14,000. What year was that? 1934. And how many have you got now? Well, we have a total of 12,000 but 9,800 of them actually employed and street cleaning setup. That's the difference. That's the 2,600 that you want. Uh, yes, sir. You want the personnel brought up to the strength that was about 1934. That's about approximately right. Since 1934, has there been any additional streets? Yes, there's been additional streets. You mean added to the city? Added to the city. Yes, sir. About what mileage? If you know. Well, our total now is 5,700 miles of streets to be cleaned. What was it in 1934? Approximately 5,000. It's 5,400 now? 5,700. 5,700. In other words, the mileage has increased by over 700 miles. Yes, sir. Since 1934. Yes, sir. But even... And the manpower has dropped over 2,000 since 1934. That's right, sir. What additional manpower did you get during this administration? A total of approximately 580 men. And based upon the additional mileage that has to be covered, the additional houses, homes that have gone up since 1934, the increase in population since 1934, you feel that you ought to have more men now? Yes, sir. Than you had in 1934? Yes, sir. And you're not asking for more men than you had in 1934. You're asking for approximately the same number of men? That's right, sir. Even though you have 700 miles more to cover? That's right, sir. You see... Now... Oh, pardon me, General. The cost of that would be about $8 million. Yes, sir. Is there anyone in the room that has any objections to the figures given by Commissioner Mulrane? All right, Commissioner. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. I think you've made out a clear case. Pardon me, General. I have a few people here, if you care to listen to them. I would very much like to hear them. I'd like to call on first a Mrs. Frank Reve of the Outdoor Cleanliness Association. Mrs. Reve. Totally irrelevant that we're glad to have our mayor back. Thanks. Thanks. Now then, I'll be brief because I know you're hearing is back of schedule. Our association, which is the Outdoor Cleanliness Association of New York, is very integrated with this, with the sanitation work, as you know. It's our committee's wish to see the town. We love it. More beautiful, more clean. Now then, we've gone over the budget figures, very hard work, with an expert. And the whole thing seems to add up to the fact that, the same fact we're all facing, that you have to try to buy something with nothing. It seems, we know the figures, we know what Commissioner Mulrayne wants. We know that it isn't only a matter of the citizens' outlook, the dirtiness of the streets. We know that there are actual collections in Brooklyn, some Harlem, some many districts that are not being properly attended to because they're overmanned. Now then, what we don't know, and what only your commission, Mayor, will know, is where you get the additional money to pay the additional men. Now, the more anyone looks at that budget, the more they realize that these things are allocated. Now, I can say, in respect to allocating, that is to putting more money to the one project, that the citizenry of New York are a little irate at times about the condition of the streets. We know, our organization is in a position to know, we get these calls through our offices. I have people stop me on the street, I scarcely know, of course, that's a minority. But we can get the general wow from various letters and people that come in. There's a double demand, a triple demand, and let's call it squawk in the last two or three years. Well, nobody knows better than we do what you're up against. You've got a great big town here, you've got a growing population, you're on this spiral of increased prices as we all are, and it's a marketing job and it's not a good one. And our feeling, and our only position today is, if you can, give more men, the public sentiment, I repeat, is strong. I again say, I think we know, and maybe you people know more, that if there is any method of reallocation to put more money, whatever they want, whatever you can spare, into making this a cleaner city, it's most important. And just one other little point I want to make, which has nothing to do with our budget hearing, I feel that it's so intensely a method of education. Now, your administration does have a, what we all call a beautiful publicity spread in the papers. You do have access to radio time. And my feeling has always been, if you take some of the spread and the time to continually educate the citizens, just put anything in. Not the drive once a year or the remark now and then, but a continual, you know what people in whole are. They have to be told something not once, but 16 or 17 times maybe. And if that thing is continually pounded, I believe it will make the citizen more aware of the minor offenses, which are quite serious. And anything we can do to help, we want to do. Thank you. Would you and your association like to undertake that educational program at special times over WNYC? Well, your honor, we would be so glad. Now, we are in as many public schools as we can cover, just as your own administration is doing it. We have people making speeches all over. We take block cleanups. We've run many block cleanups and in conjunction with the news last year, as you know. But if we can cooperate, we can produce the women, the workers, we can do. I think we're equipped to do what you ask us to do, and we'd be honored. Would you consider that? Give it consideration in your association? I think I can speak for them, but I will put it up. And would you arrange a program? I think we can work out a program. Of education? Especially together with Mr. Mulmrayne's help, you see. We will give you every cooperation. Of course, just putting it in slang, I'd like to make a big noise about it, in cooperation. Because as we all know, the citizens themselves, except for the shortage of collection, the shortage of people to clean, which I know you have, the citizens themselves are at fault. And if we can drum into their heads that it's their city, let's help, we might get somewhere. Maybe a summons now, Nente. I would like very much to have an educational program sponsored and conducted by an independent citizens agency and yours would be the logical one. Well, we've been at it for 17 years and I think we could help. You could do a good job. Should we cooperate and talk to Commissioner Mulmrayne? I think you should set about at once making arrangements and I'll see that there's time allocated to you in WNYC. Well, we're very grateful and I think it might do some business. I really do. Now on the question of manpower, you thoroughly understand that in this budget we've tried to meet the needs of every department with the money that we have available and that there is no more money except what is represented by this budget. Now you do understand that if we were to give more manpower to sanitation, we have to take it away from some other department. Well, you heard Dr. Kogel here today asking for $19 million more than we're giving him and making out a really good, good case. Now you wouldn't take any away from hospitals, would you? Of course not. You're asking some awfully hard questions, Your Honor. Oh, come, you. Come. It depends on the hospitals and how well filled they are. Some of them are not filled. Our hospitals are filled in many cases to the corridors. We have two new cancer hospitals, Delafield and Ewing, that are about to open that have to be staffed brand new. We have a new 570-bed hospital open about January 1st coming at Kings County for tuberculosis. We have now received back from the United States Public Health Service the Neponset Hospital, which we're going to use for tuberculosis, 300 beds that has to be staffed brand new and other hospitals to follow. Now you heard Dr. Kogel talk about the new programs, the ones to preserve the lives of premature babies, the ones to take care of the old age. The people that are becoming, thank heaven, are with us more and more thanks to medical research, but still subject to the diseases of old age for whom provisions must be made, so that the tendency in the hospital department is not to get along with less, but to get along with more. And you, sitting here, listening to that plea for the sick, I know would not hesitate as you diplomatically have done now in giving the answer to Dr. Kogel that under no circumstances would you take a penny away from him. The question is, how could you get more for him? Of course, I feel very strongly. It's like the housekeeper at home. If some green vegetable is too much this week, you have to put it on another green vegetable or buy carrots instead of spinach. Well, now, I know that you people can't do that. And there is nobody, I don't think there's anybody that's familiar enough with the particular allocations in your budget to say where the money can be taken from if it can be taken. We wouldn't attempt, I wouldn't attempt to say that. I'll give you another one. Of course, you're interested in your particular field. But as a citizen, you're interested in all of them. You wouldn't be interested in one without having an interest in your city, which you have and for which I'm grateful and compliment you and your group. But, consider the fire department with increasing needs actually working one man to a piece of equipment below normal. Now, you have to see a fire in a winter's night and see the conditions under which these men have to operate these pieces of equipment. And you realize that their own lives as well as those that they're there to protect are endangered by having too few men to a piece of equipment. so that when they come in and make out a case for over 550 more, 650 more men, based upon the number of pieces of equipment that they have to operate actually at fires, you certainly can't take anything away from them. Now, Commissioner Hilliard stood up here and showed you that instead of $21 million that he's not getting, he expects to get $32 million before the year is out whether we put it in the budget or not because it will be a frantic need if it happens. We can't take it from there. And the next department to be heard from, the police department, we certainly can't permit that department to be shorthanded. we're allowing from what we have as many as them now have, but they want more. So you can't take anything from that department. The others are not so large with the exception of education. And heaven forbid that we'd even suggest taking anything away from education. You're very lucky that education hasn't taken all of the sanitation money. Very fortunate. Now, the point that I make is this. I try to make it clear again. If you heard my exchanges with Colonel Riggleman this morning on it, you'll understand it better. We foresaw this need for additional money three years ago. we were working with facts. We didn't have the disadvantage of working with Colonel Riggleman's rather dusty ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... We were working on facts. We knew the trends. We saw where it was leading us. And we knew that to have money available for this budget, we should have an extra half of one percent from real estate, which would provide the money that you are now talking about and that I wish I had. Colonel Riggleman and his group opposed it. Nearly every committee, the governor appointed a committee under the state controller to find out what they thought about it. And of the entire committee at that time, only one man opposed it. And he was a professional representative of the real estate boy. But everyone else agreed on that committee that it should be granted. It wasn't. And now we find ourselves in this position that every penny available is in this budget for the present complement of manpower in all departments. And even though your commission, Mr. Mulrane, has made out an excellent case for $8 million for new personnel based on the additional streets since 1934, based upon the manpower of the department of 1934, based upon the increased population since 1934, has made out an excellent case in a few sentences. Nevertheless, because that two and a half percent in real estate was denied to us at that time, and Colonel Riggleman and his group were some of those who opposed it, we now have to say to you today, madam, that we have to pay for additional manpower at this moment. What we can get here and there, of course, we recognize the need, and if some should appear during the course of this fiscal year for which this budget is going to be passed, we'll naturally allocate it to the places where we need it most, and sanitation is one place that's crying for help. But if we should take it after July the 1st and change it in any way to meet a sudden need, we'll have Colonel Riggleman down here next year again telling us that we shouldn't have modified the budget. Do you follow me? Well... That's what happens when the expert is on the sidelines examining the play. Always the best football player is sitting in the stands. He knows precisely what to do. Thanks very much. We'll do the best. Very hard going. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like you to bear with me, General, for one or two more of my critics. Set them up, Randy. Okay. Mr. Glester Hines of the People's Civic Association of Harlem. Mr. Mayor, member of the board. At the outset, I want to say that we need so much in Harlem that I want to go on record that there should be a sales tax to help you in your present plight. I heard what Colonel Riggleman said this morning. But we can't economize on the hospital. We can't economize on the fire department. We can't economize on the welfare department. And we certainly can't economize on the police. And most of all, because we are working so hard in sanitation department, we can't economize on sanitation. In the community, the citizens for the past seven years have been carrying on an intensive campaign to keep our community clean and safe. This job still has to be done and must be done. We have worked assiduously with the sanitation department and other departments to solve many of the problems. However, we have found out that the sanitation department needs quite a bit of manpower. I want to cite a case of a street cleaner, a fellow that sweeps the block. Whenever this man is on a certain street, comes to work that day, the street is in good shape. All I have to do is to walk through that block. And I know that the fellow isn't working today or is sick or something happens to him or he's taken and sent to some other neighborhood to work. And that's the predicament of the sanitation department. They want to do a good job and they are doing a good job. But the shortage of manpower has prevented them from doing the kind of job for the city of New York. Now, in my area, from 110 to 106th or 7th Street, river to river, we feel that we could use at least 700 more sweepers in that area. Quite often, the daily papers take pictures of Harlem, spread it in the front page. It's not a very beautiful picture and garbage situation. So that we can prevent these type of things, we just have to find more men for the sanitation department. Now, we've got to get the money from some place so that the bills can be paid. And that's what I want to know how the city departments are going to get the money in order to keep our services to the, not below the present standard. The services, as I heard, Commissioner Hilliard, we can't let the welfare department down, we can't let the fire department down. And we can't let the sanitation department down. It is much better for every man, woman, and child who has a job in New York to pay a cent and a half more in the sales tax than to let the services of New York in the hospitals, the fire department, and the sanitation department to be depleted anymore. And that is the stand of the people of the community because we represent quite a cross-section of the the professional people, churches, lodges, fraternities, civic organizations, the Harlem branch, YMCA, who have been doing their part in maintaining a clean and safe Harlem. Why wouldn't you include the real estate people as for a contribution? Well, the real estate people are the natural people for this. But the first thing they would do is to increase all the rents in Harlem if they could get away with it. But you can be sure, Mr. Mayor, that we are going to be behind you. And why I said sales tax? Because we don't want to feel that only the rich people will pay because they that control real estate, the first thing they'll say, well, a crazy man from Harlem come down and talk about increasing taxation. But we feel that a sales tax tax will everybody will have to pay. It will be one of the easiest ways that everybody that includes the poor people as well as the rich people. But really, the taxes should be on the real estate interest because they are more able to pay than anyone else. I have no fight with these people, but we just have to be realistic. We can't deplete these services anymore. The Commissioner Hilliard states this morning about the welfare. The unemployment is increasing. And certainly, for every 75 people out of work, he has to employ one person in order to carry that caseload. Now, he's got to get the money someplace. We have several fires in Harlem. And every once in a while, you read in the papers that children get burned, that something happened because of garbage. Well, the garbage has to be cleaned up. The landlords won't provide the facilities with it. And evidently, people throw it out in the streets. The sanitation has to have men in order to clean up this refuse out the street. And those are some of the complex problems that we would like the daily newspapers to face from that angle. Not all the time they go come to Harlem and take a picture and show the worst side of Harlem, but show some of the best sides of Harlem. The people are trying to do a good job from sanitation, we have spent money years after years in putting a banner across 7th Avenue. I had never seen one of the daily newspapers come up to 135th Street with a great big banner across 150 feet across 7th Avenue, and take the picture of the banner of the people in Harlem who is trying to do something to make Harlem a better place for all its citizens to live. But we always hear the bad side of Harlem. Now, let it be said once and for all that the people of Harlem is under the ball and we want to share our part of the responsibility. And that's just why I stated about a sales tax. The tax should be on the real estate interest, but in order that it can be considered fair that the poor will have to pay as well as the rich, let it be that if it may be. But the services should not be decreased anymore. The hospital services should not be decreased. The fire department should be decreased because it's life and death, and God knows it. 2600 sanitation men, we should have them by all means because the streets of New York City is a black eye not only to New York City, but other cities of the world. And we should show the other rest of the countries of the world that our city is maintaining the highest standard of sanitation and we boast about it. And we can't prove it when our streets go littered because of the fact we will not get the men for the sanitation commissioner. We can't give the sanitation commissioner if we haven't got the money. So we just got to find the money someplace in order to be able to get this 2600 men. We need in our community alone 700 of 7 to 750 of my observation because I've noticed sometimes one man over a period of about 10 blocks sweeping. That is too much block for one man. And they are trying to do a job where oftentimes I go up and speak to the sanitary, one of the sweepers. And he said, well, Mr. Hines, uh, we are trying to do our best. The commissioner is of the art press and we haven't got the men. We are trying to do so and so. And during the course of my duty, I've taken sick. When I called the, the district superintendent, he has his problems too. They are doing a hard and a terrific job. Those are the mechanics of the sanitation department. And we are trying to work with them. But the money has to come someplace. And God knows the only way the money can become is either we're going to face it, either true as the mayor said, and lots of people was against that. Either we're going to have, like the Irish people try to do, have an Irish lottery, have some kind of lottery. Either we're going to get it from a sales tax. Either we're going to get it from the real estate interest. But we cannot deplete the service anymore. And the people, many of the people in Harlem are suffering. And because of this suffering, we, what are they going to do if they have no jobs and all these facilities are, are depleted? Well, there is no question of taking any manpower away from the department. The question here is, how are we going to get more for the department? I want to tell you this, Mr. Hines, a message to your area. You have had, due to many causes, uh, old buildings especially, a frightful rat condition in your area. You'll be very pleased, I'm sure, to know that at three o'clock today, it should be here now, a report will be delivered here by the Department of Building and Housing, which will be referred to the Budget Director, asking for $500,000. For a unified fight on that pest, by the Department of Housing and Building, Department of Health, and Department of Sanitation, on a block-by-block basis. Uh, that will mean, of course, a modification of the budget to get this thing done. Uh, Colonel Riggleman might object to modifying the budget, as he did this morning, but it's going to be modified and it's going to be done. I thought you ought to know that, since you represent an area that is in bad shape because of this condition, action will be underway within the next five or six days on a block-by-block basis. I want to thank you for that, Your Honor, member of the board. Uh, rat control is very important because it is one of the, um, phases of sanitation. And, um, uh, if you have no garbages, there won't be any rats. And if the houses are, uh, improved, um, uh, better, um, uh, dumb waiter facilities, there won't be rats. But where there are food and garbage is thrown all over, and nobody care about it, there will be rats. And we'll have to appropriate the money because rats will cause disease, and it'll not only strike Harlem, but it'll strike... ... York City and even Colonel Riggleman. Mr. Walter Holmes, the secretary of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, I represent a business organization known throughout Greater New York as the Bronx Chamber of Commerce. It would seem on first blush that we would be opposed to any form of taxation. Every businessman hates to dig into his pocket to put up any more money than is necessary. But it is good business for any civic organization to look for the life of the community first. And I'm sure that our distinguished borough president, Honorable James J. Lyons, will agree with me when we say that the Bronx could be a little bit cleaner than it is, that the sanitation department has been doing an excellent job with the small contingent of men that it has, but the outlying areas such as the Bronx and the other boroughs have not been able to get as full attention as they should get. Mr. Mayor, you're a Brooklynite and very proud of Brooklyn. Let's remember that before Brooklyn was incorporated into Greater New York, the Bronx was part of New York City with the 23rd and 24th awards back in 1874. Is that right, Mr. Borough President? It is. And the Bronx in a way... The Bronx in a way has a little tradition as a part of the city of New York, and I would like to go on record... Yeah, but Brooklyn came in with New York's county and the Bronx broke away from it. I have to blame that on the borough president. I mean, they came into the city, but they still held their counties. So they came in with New York county. Mr. Mayor, with your pleasure, I'd like to read a letter which was written at the direction of our president, Lawrence E. Jerosef. Chairman and members of the Board of Estimates, gentlemen, in the interest of the community in which we live and in which we do business, it is necessary for us to go on record in supporting the plea for more men for new positions in the sanitation department. The city of New York is a big city subject to an enormous amount of dust, dirt, and common refuse. It is a difficult city to keep clean. The sanitation department with its small staff is doing a good job in spite of tremendous obstacles. We realize that the department has fewer men than it had 18 years ago. Many sections of the Bronx require daily service which they cannot give because they cannot spread men so thin. Many of our civic organizations organized by the Real Estate Board of the Bronx are conducting a clean-up campaign of their own in the fashion inspired by Forest House. Now, we need cleaner streets and more efficient service. Dirty streets have a demoralizing effect upon our people, particularly upon our youth. And the old proverb that cleanliness is next to godliness still holds true. The Bronx Chamber of Commerce is proud to present its appeal on behalf of New York City's sanitation department. They've been doing a good job for a good city, but by giving them the proper budget, sufficient men, and the proper tools, let's have them do a real job for a real city. By direction of the President, Lawrence DeRosa. Mr. Mayor, I may add a personal remark of my own. With cleaner streets, there'll be less people in the hospitals. With less refuse, there'll be less fires. And with less demoralizing effect upon the youth of our community, we'll have less criminal records, too, in the City of New York. Well, have you any suggestions as to where we'll get the money? Mr. Mayor, in a time of war, we never ask such a question. And this is a war in the name of humanity and common decency. Can we mark down the Bronx Chamber of Commerce as being in favor of 2.5% on real estate? I would say that the Bronx Chamber of Commerce is in favor of more men for the sanitation department of the City of New York. And if it means it's necessary to put some of our real estate men into another bracket, or however you may say so, and I may lose my job for saying so, I'll go on record. And then I'll forget. I'll go on record. I don't want that. Don't say it. Mr. Mayor, you're from Brooklyn. I'm from the Bronx. The Bronx always speaks up. You're welcome to the job. Thank you. There you are. Thanks, Jim. And lay yourself in your constitutional rights. And now from Brooklyn, Mr. Stanley J. Reben, the President of the Cooney Island Chamber of Commerce. I didn't quite hear that, Mr. Mayor. I heard it all, Stanley. Gentleman of the Board of Estimates. I heard it all. I heard it all. I heard it all. As a businessman, sir, I'd like to say that I can very well appreciate the quandary and you find yourself with the spiraling costs and the lowering income, and yet the necessity of maintaining all of these vital services. It is a very, very difficult problem. And yet I feel I would be remiss in my duty as a citizen if I did not offer the sentiments of the Cooney Island Chamber and our area in connection with the very, very vital service that the Department of Sanitation offers. The other speakers have gone into it in connection with the subject of the disease that results when the slitter, this refuse, is not promptly and properly collected. So I will not be repetitious. I do feel that it is a difficult problem even for the Department to marshal public opinion behind its problem. When the Police Department cracks a very difficult case, it makes the front pages, and rightfully so, because their work is efficient and brilliant and dramatic. When the Fire Department puts out a very difficult fire, it makes the front pages, and rightfully so, because it was efficiently and dramatically done. But when the Sanitation Department man, whose quota is four loads of garbage per day, picks up eight, a super impossible feat, the only one knows about it is his wife. And it is consequently not as easy to arouse the public to the inherent danger of any amelioration of the service that this Department so efficiently offers with the facilities it has on hand. We in Cooney Island this year plan to put on a promotional program which in the annals of show business has been unequaled. We expect to entertain a half a million people a night, in addition to the crowds which have ordinarily come. Last year, we entertained 40 million visitors within 20 weeks. This year, we expect to entertain 50 million due to this program. Whenever you get those crowds, such as 2 million in one night, as we had in the air show last year, we must get a litter. No matter how carefully the concessionaires, who have all pledged themselves to a clean-up campaign this year, and to complete cooperation with the Department of Sanitation, no matter how they try, they can't humanly keep the litter that 2 million people in one night make in one night off their streets. And it is only with the extraordinarily efficient cooperation that we have had from the Department of Sanitation in the past that we have been able to keep the place as clean as it is. There is still room for improvement. We of the Chamber are fully conscious of our responsibility in that regard. But we respectfully ask that the Board, you, Mr. Mayor, if you possibly can, reconsider the request of this Department so that they can provide the services which not only the citizenry of New York will appreciate in coming to a cleaner Coney Island, but our millions of out-of-town visitors. I am mindful in your position of the quandary I was faced with just two weeks ago with Easter coming up. My wife needed a new Easter outfit, and my children needed it. I said, where am I going to get the money? I haven't got it. I don't have to tell you who won the argument. They got it anyway. And I hope, sir, that you can find the same solution for these very, very vital services. I hope the solution isn't as tough as yours. And now, Your Honor, I'll close with one more gentleman from Queens County. Mr. Dan Russo from the United Civic Council. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, I come here this afternoon. I've been here all morning, and I listened to a great amount of dismay over some of the discussions made with reference to the attitude of the Board of Estimate and the Mayor's office. I will say that we, the civic workers of Queens County, are highly appreciative, Mr. Mayor. And it isn't said here just for the moment. It's said here in all seriousness of what this present administration has done for the City of New York, and particularly for Queens County. I will speak here that the Department of Sanitation's problems have been very well known to us. We in Queens County, I suppose, constitute that majority of the 700 additional miles necessary for the Department of Sanitation to serve. And we in Queens County have never swerved from our responsibility, even to the extent of spending money by themselves, in order to maintain the cleanliness of its streets. And I only can refer you back to the snowstorm we had two years ago, when members, homeowners, and streets paid a sufficient amount of money to clean those streets, only because they knew that the Department of Sanitation was extremely handicapped with its facilities. And I'm speaking about manpower, particularly at this moment, in order to do the things that it was required of it to do. We know that streets, particularly in our section, we have never questioned the fact that the Department of Sanitation was required to clean the streets. We know, too, that the Department of Sanitation has been unable to do it. We get, in our particular area, service three times a week. We know that in giving us service in three times a week, that they must, of necessity, take service away from parts of Brooklyn, parts of Manhattan, and parts of the Bronx, which is, according to us, unfair. And yet we can't see any remedy to it, except for the increase in the manpower of the Department of Sanitation. Now, much has been said here this morning with reference to finances. I know that the Board of Estimate, the Comptroller's Office, and the Bureau of the Budget are desirous of getting as much money as they possibly can. I think that Mr. Joseph recalls only a short time back when I worried about the revenue he was going to receive. I still think that perhaps we can get more revenue. And if I may just digress a moment, just to give you a minute whereby there is a possible source of revenue within our city of New York, and this is just a recommendation, and I know you will accept it the way you accepted a recommendation made at the capital budget hearing in October 1948 with reference to the Board of Education procedure. You know that within Queens County, there is an area of 147 acres of land presently used by the government of the United States of America and called Fort Totten. You know that if that was, I was just only thinking this between Sunday and today. You know if that land were utilized for commercial purposes or for residential areas, the amount of revenue accruing to the city of New York might increase the facilities which we're asking for from the Department of Sanitation, for the Department of Sanitation, for the police and fire, and for the hospitals. That's just a suggestion, Mr. Mayor. It's just a thought that I had as one of the other means whereby the city might increase its revenue. I think for 147 acres of land, I think land is selling now in Queens for about $8,000 a lot. I think your assessment roll would go up. Your bonded indebtedness could be increased, and certainly your taxes could be increased, as I think it's been implied here this morning and this afternoon, that the majority of your income stems from real estate taxes. Now we in Queens, and I know that while the civic associations have always been out for economy, we still insist upon efficiency in government and proper services. And we know that proper services cannot be measured in a minimum amount of manpower for any one of the departments that you've mentioned this morning. We are fully in accord with everything that you have done and everything that you intend to do. Our only regret is that you cannot fulfill, I know that your sincerest desire is to serve in the manner in which you desire to serve the people of the community, the city of New York, only because of lack of funds. We're trying to help you, and we particularly, those civic associations that I represent, which is approximately an area covered by one-third of the county of Queens County. We are fully in accord with what you're attempting to do. We are as critical as we are complimentary, and we compliment you in what you're achieving to do. We say that the Department of Sanitation's request of 2,649 men is not too much for the Board of Estimate to consider. We say that the $8 million that would be expended towards an improvement of a vital department of the city of New York would be well spent. I fully agree with Dr. Kogel this morning in his suggestion, but let me give an illustration of a situation that occurred not too far from Queens General Hospital and Tribor Hospital. Two years ago, we had a virus infection. It was traceable to rats. Oh, I'm not putting any blame upon anybody, but as the speaker from Harlem stated, without garbage, you don't get rats, and without rats, you don't get disease. It all works glove to glove, and I think it's an allied situation that the Department of Sanitation must have this money in order to do the kind of a job that you expect of it. We're proud of that little slogan in the back of every Department of Sanitation truck. This is your city, yours, and mine. Let's keep it clean. And that is the reason I'm speaking to you and pleading with you this morning, making the one additional recommendation that perhaps some means, either through the Comptroller's Office or through the Real Estate Director's Office, that perhaps we can get these 447 acres in Fort Tutton released to the city so that we could put them on a tax roll and so give a little added incentive for the City of New York to do its responsibility. The 2,649 men, I can assure you, will not be the utmost, but I'm certain that under the present situation and administration of the Department of Sanitation, they'll be utilized so that they will do more than the 14,000 men that you spoke of as being the complementary manpower division of the Department of Sanitation in 1934. It is necessary that we have it. You know, the section that I live in is supposed to be, it's only 11 years old, and we pride ourselves on everything, and we're critical of the Department of Sanitation as we were two years ago. But we, in fairness to everybody, we cannot be critical of anybody or of anybody, or of any group of men that we restrict the usage of the facilities that they rightfully deserve. Being sensible about it, we cannot criticize and at the same time demand the services that we cannot possibly get unless we give them the tools with which to work. I'm asking you, in the name of those 18 associations that I represent here, and I know of the many more with whom I've affiliated who may or may not be present here to speak in their own behalf, I know that I reiterate to you that this $8 million is a worthwhile investment in the welfare of the community and would certainly uplift the health standards of the city of New York. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know you're a very busy man, General, and you are the gentleman of the board, but there are some people who came down here today, and I'd just like to thank them for coming here. All right, you go ahead and thank them. Tell them we're very grateful to them for coming. Yes, sir. Thank you, gentlemen. Police Department, Commissioner O'Brien. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates. What is your present budget for the current year? The present budget for the current year is $103,543,257. What are you getting in the proposed budget? In the... Starting July 1st. July 1st is the budget I just mentioned. What? The other is... What's last year's budget? Last year was $82 million. $82 million. And you're allowed $83 million now. That's right. All right. And our request is for $103 million. Now, your request is for $103 million. That's right. That's a difference of $20 million, over and above this budget. That's right. Now, let's hear you justify that. Well, gentlemen, we have in the police department at the present time a quarter of 18,700 some odd patrolmen. What was... What year did you have the highest number of personnel in the department? In the year 1932. What was the manpower of the department in 1932? 1932, we had 19,242 members of the police department. How many have you now? 18,700. Now, since that time, there has been, of course, an increase, an obvious increase in the population. Well, if I may take you back to... from the period of 1932 up to the year 1944, including the war years, there was a drop in the personnel of the police department down to around 15,000, some few odd hundred. And since this present administration, the quota has been increased over 3,600 members of the department, bringing it up to its present standard of 18,000. Now, what you want is $20 million worth more personnel. Well, General, what I claim is an urgent need, almost a must. Let's give it... Let's have your overall picture first. Well, the overall picture, we feel that the police department should be increased to 25,000 personnel at a cost of $19,516,000. 19 million. That's right, 19 million. $3 million a thousand. That's right. Well, where'd you get the 19? Well, uh... $3 million a thousand. That's right. That'd be an increase of 5,000... That's right. ...or 6,000 men. So it's approximately... Yeah. ...the right figure. Now, why would you need 6,000 additional men? General, I've prepared here a survey which I will present to you and the members of the Board of Estimates. It's something like 50 pages, and obviously it would be too long to read here. Yeah. But in this survey, we have outlined the growth of the city of New York. The growth... The increase in population alone might be an indication that I could mention. In 1932, in the city of New York, there were 6,990-some-odd-thousand residents. We feel that the census being taken now will show 8,200,000. Now, that's just population. About a million. Over a million. Well... Over a million. 1,200,000. A million close to 300,000. That was... Well, it was... $6,700,000. $6,900,000 in 1932. Oh, really? You didn't say that. You said $6,700,000. No. Well... Read the figure. $6,990,000 in 1932. All right. It would be approximately $8,250,000 in the city as of this census. We bid. $1,250,000. That's right. How many states... How many cities in this state have a population of over 250,000? Buffalo and New York. That's about all. And there are not many states in the Union that have more people than we have increased since 1932. All right. So you now ask for... Policemen... to police a city of 1,200,000 population. Yes. That is exactly what a city of 1,200,000 might require. About 6,000 policemen. About 6,000 policemen. But... When we compare the figure of the police force in 1932 with the present police force, we have to take into consideration the things that have become so difficult. The vast areas in Queens, in the Bronx, and in Brooklyn that were formerly farmlands are now immense housing projects and vast communities with all of the facilities that go with the community of that kind. A new city. It's a brand-new city. That's right. The working conditions that have been provided for the men have cost us manpower. In other words, when we, through your good graces, granted a five-day week to policemen and that meant that it was a loss of 1,000 men, approximately 1,000 man-hours of work. All of these conditions have added up until today we are policing the outlying boroughs with automobiles almost exclusively. We know, of course, that the man on post is necessary. Not as necessary, of course, in this fast-moving age as the radio cars. But in order to police these outlying sections, and to bring up the manpower of the department, for some semblance of what is required in this city, the department must eventually, in a very short time, be increased to 25,000. You'll feel that in addition to patrol by automobile, there should also be some patrol by foot patrol. Yes, General. In other words, you'd have automobile posts and you'd have foot posts. Yes. There's an example of how our power was depleted. In 1932, we had 250 radio cars. Today, we have almost double that, about 500 radio cars. That takes the man off the street. Of course, it gives us better working facilities in this fast-moving age, as I stated. But it's at the sacrifice of the man on foot. There is a certain type of police work that requires automobile patrol. And there's also that type of police work that requires foot patrol. One of the presses set up for want of manpower, you believe that you have not enough men on foot patrol. No. We have not enough men on foot patrol, General. We have not enough men in traffic. We have not sufficient men to cover our outlying areas. And your request is for 6,000 men, enough to police an additional city since 1932, of a population of 1,200,000. That's right, General. And you say the 6,000 has just brought the need for it, has come about because of the natural growth of the city and population on the streets, homes. That's right. And the spread of the area that was ordinarily farmland are now residential areas with all of the attendant police problems that go with an area of that kind. In addition to that, you have other services in the police department that had to be increased because of the growth of the city. Traffic is one. Traffic is one. A juvenile aid bureau. Two. A juvenile aid bureau was practically nothing in 1932. Our emergency division increased to 40-some-odd cars roaming around the streets of the city of New York with emergency equipment plus the 20 big emergency trucks. Those are innovations in that decade that has taken men from the street. They're necessary services. They're services that the people of the city of New York shouldn't be without and cannot be without. But it takes manpower. Each and one of these innovations has taken the man away from the street. Well, now that's your overall picture. How about your emergency situation? You're about to say in the beginning that you had an urgent need. Well, what we considered a minimum of a request for this year, realizing the condition that you were facing financially and the Board of Estimate, we asked for an increase of 50 sergeants and 1,122 patrolmen. What will that cost? That will cost $3 million. $3,766,000. That's almost $4 million. That's almost $4 million. And, General, it is a nudge and request. If you get them, you'll have to have more lieutenants and captains. We'd be satisfied with 50 sergeants to go with those patrolmen, and we can operate with the present quarter of captains and lieutenants. $4 million. $4 million. $4 million. Approximately $4 million. Fire Department want $2,600,000. And they need it, too, General. They made out a case. Moraine makes out a case for $8 million. If any man made one out, he did. Dr. Cogler made out a case for $19 million. If any man made out a case for $19 million, he did. Commissioner Hilliard made out a case for $32 million. Now, that will run anywhere from $50 million to $75 million based upon the needs of welfare. There are five of you have made out a case for that much of necessary help for your five pockets. I'm perfectly satisfied from my own memory of the policemen and the experience since then that today it's impossible to do a good police job in this town, the one you'd like to do, with less than 25,000 men. And that was recommended by the late Commissioner Valentine six years ago. That's right. I remember the announcement that he made on his retirement from the department. His anticipation was $25 million within the next five years. $25,000. $25,000. $25,000. And he almost hit it right on the nose. $25,000. Yeah, but they left me with $15,000. Yes, General. I don't think the department was ever at a lower ebb than when you took over in 1945. Not in the 50 years history of the city. So a lot of factors entered into that, of course. We don't want to criticize anybody, but... Oh, no. It got back then as it is today to a question of money. That's precisely what this Board of Estimates approved three years ago. We foresaw this. And we asked the legislature to give us an opportunity to go to the people last November to get an extra two and a half percent from real estate to meet this need. The governor's committee approved it, but it didn't get through the legislature. So there wasn't voted on this past November. Reeser nodded, or Shakespeare nodded, and so did Colonel Riggins. He said that it couldn't have gone to a vote last November. He couldn't be more wrong. It could have gone to a vote that was asked for exactly at the same time that we asked for the $150 million for hospitals. That went through last November. We're using that now. If that two and a half percent had gone through as we had requested, Reeser nodded, or Shakespeare nodded, and so did Colonel Riggins. He said that it couldn't have gone to a vote last November. He couldn't be more wrong. It could have gone to a vote that was asked for exactly at the same time that we asked for the $150 million for hospitals. That went through last November. We're using that now. If that two and a half percent had gone through as we had requested on a frank statement of what this city needed, what you're asking for could be provided. At the present time, every penny available is in this budget and is disposed of precisely as we have laid it out. Now there's no other department for which I could take any money for your department any more than I wouldn't take it away from your department for any other department. We're different. Hamstrung because we didn't get that two and a half percent. Now you have some people here that wish to be heard. I might add this, General. The safety of the people of this city cannot be measured in dollars and cents. There are over a hundred organizations here today who in the last year have written me letters voluntarily on their part. I got all those letters together and communicated with them and asked them if they felt the same as they did when they wrote those letters. They are people who are worried about their communities. They are people who have watched the degeneration of our department as to manpower. They've roamed the streets of their city night and day and saw the absence of men in the uniform of this department. These people, General, must be heard. Present them. How many are they? We've got over a hundred organizations but I'd like to call on a couple of key organizations first, please. Let's call on a few key people. Speak representative. Mr. Solovey. Mr. Joseph Solovey, Kings County Criminal Bar Association. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen of the Board of Estimate, most unusual for a president of the Kings County Criminal Bar Association to come before this board to ask for more cops, particularly a lawyer who has been practicing law for about 40 years and defending a lot of people who are charged with the alleged commission of crime. However, I've spoken to the commissioner about police force of the city of New York and our association and I believe one of the outstanding bar associations of the city of New York have passed resolution. I think we sent you around a copy of it asking for 25,000 police officers. I was astounded and stung when I saw the figures of 19,242 police officers in 1932 and we have a less police force now. I find that looking over the figures you have about one policeman or one cop for every 436 people in the city of New York and I don't see how any policeman could possibly do justice to a job to protect life, limb, and property under such circumstances. We believe that it's an absolute necessity at this time to increase the police force. I know it's a pretty tough job to try to ask this board of estimate with the hands practically tied to give them 25,000 police officers but I think something should be done and if it's a question of increasing the taxes whether Colonel Regan likes it or not I can now talk as a taxpayer of the city of New York and I own several properties in my own name and I wouldn't hesitate a moment in paying an increase of taxes if it's for the proper protection of property life, limb, and property in the city of New York. I for one won't hesitate a second and make no protest and tell you that right now. I've never done never made a protest and I might say too that I haven't with all the rent obligations and increases and so forth and laws that I've never even increased rentals. So I'm I could say that I don't want any increase in rent and don't expect to get any increase in rent because I haven't made any increase in rentals in the last 15 years before the rent laws ever came into existence. So that I I think that there should be something done to increase the police force of the city of New York and I don't know just exactly where you could get all of this money to make all of these increases for the various departments that they speak about here but while I was sitting in this room a thought came to my mind and that is there are from time to time I know that the various colleges of the city of New York are willed millions and millions of dollars worth of property in the city of New York and they own great buildings and vast acreages throughout the city of New York I don't believe that that property is taxed I don't believe the college property I mean that which is left to them such as we have on around 50th Street and 48th Street and 6th Avenue and various other places of the city of New York I don't think there's an assessment on any of that property and they're getting substantial rentals and they're even bringing profits I don't see why under some why there can't be some legislation passed that while the buildings are bringing profits and bringing substantial rentals that there can't be some money realized on those buildings and how would your association feel about the automobile tax I think it would be perfectly alright anybody can own an automobile there could be an increase in taxes and it'd be no matter what the amount would be I don't think they'd feel it a bit and we'd heartily endorse it well here's here's 4 million dollars demanded from the police department as an urgent matter the estimates a few years ago when we talked about the automobile tax would run into about 5 million how would you would you speak for your organization I speak for them right now and I tell you as an automobile owner and so and some members of my family that we have automobiles I'd be very happy to pay the tax and I can also speak as president of another civic organization called the Center League from the Crown Heights section that they too would be very happy to pay that kind of a tax as all they have to do is some of the fellows who are rolling around the roaring 40s is just take one day off and forget about going into one of the places of amusement and they've got that automobile tax all paid up right away and I I think that the you know we're somewhat hinder too because of the various happenings in the city today because of the failure of the police to be around some of us bachelors still remain single and maybe with a proper police protection I will walk into a ball and chain and then have changed my mind about it and have some of the little ones running around Brooklyn Joe you'll like it Joe you'll like it General it's all in the mind but the heart is willing the rest we forget now I think it's an absolute necessity and I think it's a very modest amount when the police commissioner says at the present time that he asks for 1100 men there must be some way of finding money for that for at least 1100 men to man the city of New York now we're living of course in the borough of Brooklyn where I come from the largest borough in the world there are very few cities in the United States that have the population of the borough of Brooklyn has today and if you have recently gone through Linden Boulevard or the Concord section or Remsen Avenue and around those new neighborhoods where these tremendous buildings around New Creek Avenue and Nostrand Avenue where these tremendous buildings have been going up and just as soon as they're rented there'll be thousands and thousands of more people in the borough of Brooklyn you surely must have more policemen there and you can't have them one for every 436 men nor one for every two square blocks they can't possibly do a job and we urge you to find some ways a means to give the commissioner of the city of New York who we think is doing a wonderful job with what he has and he certainly has a great flock of men under him and we feel that something should be done about fortifying him and giving him a helping hand thank you Joe Mr. John Neary chairman of the New York District Kiwanis Clubs a resident of the Bronx Hello John Mayor members of the Board of Estimate thanks Jim I expected that I'll take up very few moments of your time as you know Bronx County has always been a law abiding county we're very proud of our law enforcement agencies there because if there's anything that happens in Bronx County it's cooperation between the law enforcement agencies and the individuals in difficulty now in the first place commissioner O'Brien spoke about the foot patrolman and he spoke about the radio car we had an incident that happened in the Bronx last evening had we a foot patrolman I don't think it would have happened there was a little boy lost his life up at 239th street and Broadway due to the fact that the radio car is not in a position to see these places where these youngsters dig and dig under sidewalks and after all one boy was killed and I think the other one is in the hospital and not in very good condition now I think if we had some of these foot patrolmen we probably would have eliminated that condition how would your organization feel about an automobile tax John well to tell you the truth General we have never considered in Kiwanis we never consider any of those taxes whatsoever now you see I'm chairman of the public affairs committee for the state of New York in Kiwanis International I was also past president of the Bronx Club now in our organization we don't consider any of those taxes whatsoever but we do consider police protection and things of that kind but nevertheless I'm connected with many other civic organizations and I dare say that anything that you saw fit to create which would make the occasion one that we could go out after and get some money for these benefits that you're looking for here and I might not say benefits for the benefit of our Bronx County or any other county in your five boroughs I know that they'd all be behind you on it and I know that we in the Bronx would be glad to help you and assist you in any way thank you John okay Mr. Matthew J. Eater executive vice president of the uptown chamber of commerce and an officer in the chambers of commerce of the city Mr. Mayor and gentlemen we are very favorably impressed by the very strong case which Commissioner O'Brien makes out for an increase in the authorized strength of the police department we know that it is true as he points out that there's been a substantial increase in the population of the city since the authorized strength of the department back in 1932 was 19,000 men that in those 18 years and particularly in the four years since the end of the war that there have been many many of the outlying areas that have been developed into huge housing projects which require policing we know too that in those years there's been a great growth in the work of the juvenile aid bureau the youth squads the police athletic league and so on all of which requires manpower it is perfectly obvious that if 19,000 men were needed to give the city of New York adequate police protection in 1932 that the commissioners estimated 25,000 for 1950 certainly isn't far off we hope that some way can be found I'm not prepared to tell you today how the money should be found I think you gentlemen are much more able to suggest additional avenues of income for the city but I believe that if this board should attempt to sell the idea to any business group or any real estate group that the protection of the city of New York its cleanliness proper hospitalization and all the other things that you've talked about here are needed and can't be provided under the city's present income that those men and women will go along on any fair program the gentleman from the Kings County we're going to hold you to that we're going to hold you to that alright you may sir now the gentleman from the Kings County Bar Association it seemed to me offered a suggestion that's worth pursuing further he pointed out that there there are a number of tax exempt properties in the city of New York as a matter of fact I think one of the local civic associations the West Side Chamber of Commerce made a survey of that some three or four years ago and came out with a pamphlet indicating that one fourth one quarter of all the property in the city of New York was tax exempt now no one would more than that beg your pardon it's more than that the controller made a study of that are you familiar with the figures it's almost up to street beds and parks it's up to 52% 52% well then maybe the West Side Association of Commerce wasn't far wrong when it said that 25% of the property was tax exempt and might be taken into consideration for some form of taxation now that would include the sort of enterprises that the gentleman from King County referred to property that's bequeathed to colleges and hospitals and other institutions of that sort that are income producing it seems incredible that with the city of New York having to provide all the services to the tenants of those buildings that not a nickel in revenue comes to the city of New York from the rent they pay it seems to me that that's something that ought to be pursued it probably would require some form of state legislation but the sooner what is needed is known the quicker we'll be able to get to work on it I think revenue producing property pays taxes that they are taxed well there seems to be some question about it I don't know who raised it well the gentleman from King's County did and nobody for instance if the owner of the Woodworth Building should bequeath that building to one of our colleges that doesn't mean it's tax exempt what about the land on which the Chrysler Building is built that's owned by Columbia University I've heard it said for 12 years that Columbia University pays no taxes on the land on which the Chrysler Building the Court of Appeals decided that one beg your pardon the Court of Appeals has decided that one that's one of the few outstanding cases in the city of New York that's an individual an unusual case and went to the Court of Appeals well has any survey been made recently to indicate how many other buildings like that there are where the Court of Appeals hasn't ruled in favor of the building those are fully covered fully covered you know the state of New York has a lot of property in the city that is tax exempt well of course I'm somewhat inclined to agree with the mayor that the city of New York does not get its adequate share of the taxes collected by the state do you know there's a lot of property that we have upstate and we pay the taxes we pay the local real estate taxes to the local municipality yes but does any local municipality upstate charge the state any taxes no no the federal government no I'd like to get it well I'd like to see you get it too because I think that the unfortunately the constitution the burden ought to be spread around a little bit more the other way I thought the suggestion the gentleman made beforehand was going to lead up to the fact he was going to suggest to wealthy people in their will they leave some money to the city of New York instead of these big colleges that's what I thought he was going to develop you thought I was going to do that a gentleman from King's we're working now on a proposal that's made here by Commissioner O'Brien for 50 sergeants and 1,100 men is a very urgent need I agree it isn't any more urgent in its way except because of the nature of the service than any other request that's been made here today I subscribe to that 100% however if we were to go after enough money to meet that urgent need there is that automobile tax which we're permitted to impose and haven't done so as yet how would you and your organization feel about that? well I'll let you know Friday morning our directors are meeting tomorrow night we've never taken any action on that but it seems to me that there wouldn't be any group in New York City that would oppose the imposition of a modest automobile tax if it meant that Commissioner O'Brien and his police department would be increased by 1100 men those 1100 men could save the the automobilists in New York City more than the modest tax by speeding up traffic I hope that if he gets those 1100 men that he will cover some of the busy intersections particularly in the borough of Manhattan which are now not covered and which causes congestion and also are very hazardous and if some of those men are assigned to traffic posts seems to me the motorist will be a lot better off and I think the idea could be sold to them on the basis of you're going to have your car speeded up by the imposition of this tax because it's going to buy you more police officers one thing I'm very happy about and that is the number of civic associations that have taken an interest in this we've been trying to arouse interest in this for the last three or four years and got nowhere now I'm very happy interested in what in the automobile tax in increasing our police force and our services well our organization for one since Commissioner Valentine was in office has constantly pleaded for increased personnel an increase in the authorized strength of the department we know what the conditions are in the crowded areas in New York one of which Mr. Hines referred to before and with which I'm familiar I know that that area is not now adequately policed that lots of crimes are committed up there solely because of the absence of the man on post the radio cars do a wonderful job in apprehending a man after he commits a crime but the presence of a man on post does more to deter crime than a dozen radio cars in my opinion and while I know technically that every captain in that area will say that every one of his posts is covered what he means is one man may be walking four or five posts now they're only technically covered and you can't do a 100% job with a 50% force our organization has been in favor of an increase in the police department strength since back in 1930 and we've let every commissioner know it including Commissioner O'Brien on three or four occasions in the last 14 months since he's been thank you very much for coming you're welcome sir Mr. John Rizzo President of the Allied Queens County Civic Associations Mr. Mayor members of the Board of Estimate I'm not going to tell you that we need police I'm not going to go along with everything that was told here in fact I'm not going to repeat but I understand our good friend Mr. Regalman couldn't find no ways of raising any money I've jotted down a few things here the first thing of all if these friends of ours up in Albany would sit up and take notice and give us a little more state aid as compared to the taxes that are collected in the city of New York we'll get a certain amount there if we had legalized lotteries and bingos which isn't the worst thing in the world we can raise the money because people are going to gamble whether you Mr. Mayor or the members of the Board of Estimate or I or anybody don't want them to do it it seems that we all have a little bit of gambling in our blood you know at one time the city of New York just passed very recently during the few administrations a bill was passed into the whole Board of Aldermen and passed in this Board of Estimates with only one descending vote authorizing a lottery in the city of New York that was yours I recall that but of course we had the Puritans in power at that time and we did turn a leaf in civics in the borough of Queens since then we used to come up here and holler to have the taxes down but we still wanted the improvements what fools we were then but the previous administration at that time kept the budget up after he told you that he would keep it down and we got no police protection we got nothing whatsoever particularly in that foreign county across the city across the river rather I mean the county of Queens I find also that in the assessments of sewers if you own a hundred foot lot and you have a one family or a two family house the assessment we'll assume is about $200 but you take a one maybe a 50 or 60 family home they pay the same assessment they should be paid per unit and the city of New York will have gained quite a bit of much more much more money then I suggest also your honor and members of the board a tax on tax liens let's have open sales on the tax liens let everybody know about them and put a tax on because those people who are buying the tax liens are getting a good break so put the tax on those tax liens how about the automobile tax well general I took office at Queens County Civic Councils if you don't want to answer you don't have to a year ago January personally I own a car and I'd be very glad to pay five or even ten dollars I say to you we need a straight tenth cent fare in the city of New York we really do and I think that you will gain quite a bit of money I say that Commissioner O'Brien must have those cops I don't want to seem so heartless Mr. Mayor when I say forget the hospitals or forget education everything if you forget the policing of the city of New York and your police structure falls down we'll be mobbed right here we wouldn't be able to meet here that I think is the first thing I want to tell you about something in advance so that you don't go away with the wrong impression if you charge a twenty cent fare in the city of New York you couldn't use it for the things we're talking about under the laws they wrote it and signed it and sent it down to me to administer it has to stay in there on the board of transportation well we can see don't look for any money out of that well why can't we seek legislation towards it we did what did we get our cousins upstate wouldn't do nothing for us well then we'll have to try to dispossess it so long as you I want you to get that clear doesn't matter what your fare is it's got to stay in transportation after it pays for expenses it's got to then take up the slack for the real estate people that are paying on the bonds your honor may I cite a few instances in the borough of Queens about two or three years ago in one part of Queens we heard some screams at about 10.30 at night a girl six years old and another one five year old were going to a store and we heard the screams at that particular time the neighbors got out before the police could get there and the moron was climbing through the bushes and evaded this here mob now we want the protection of our children now we in civics you or I or everybody else we're fighting day by day we want protection we want education we want hospitalization and all that but somebody's got to pay for it we've got to find it we've got to scratch our heads I say to you don't place too much faith in the city citizens budget commission and the citizen union isn't the only organization in the city of New York we have the Queens County civic councils in the borough of Queens they do a lot of business there we have the Queens Civic Committee and both those organizations have an affiliation of organizations 87 organizations your honor and believe it or not they were the ones that had guts enough in the last election to break a precedent and not go back to that old administration we had we played politics believe it or not and we went along with this administration huh we do not it's not a paper organization I say to you Mr. Mayor I think that the Queens Civic Committee and Queens County Civic Council if you wish to meet with a committee of them in the next month or two let them produce some sort of an honest to goodness study not 75 leaves of paper or 3 or 4 volumes we'll give you everything condensed in about 1 or 2 pages and it'll be right from the bottom of our hearts I say Mr. Mayor we ought to have some of these here taxes that I said we should have so that's all may I just say this one word a lot of people have been disappointed that they couldn't say nothing for Mr. Mulrane Commissioner Mulrane now if you send these people away Mr. Mayor they're going to feel very bad because I heard them murmuring going out the hall they're in support there's about maybe 8 or 9 civic heads here of civic organizations if you give them just about 45 seconds they'll be tickled to death thank you be glad to hear them be glad to hear anyone that wants to be heard John Mrs. Dorothy L. Michaels president of the assembly of Jewish women's organizations in the borough of Brooklyn Mrs. Michaels is the head of some hundred organizations in the borough of Brooklyn Mr. Michaels how are you? Your Honor Mayor Cashmore Mr. Lyons Board of Estimate ladies and gentlemen I'm mindful of the honor stowed on me this afternoon to represent the assembly of Brooklyn Jewish women's organizations of Brooklyn of which I'm proud to be their president we have on our roster close on to 200 groups representing philanthropic cultural and spiritual groups in Brooklyn I speak for them your honor I re-echo the words of our commissioner O'Brien to the crying need of more adequate police protection in Brooklyn your honor knows and is mindful of the growth of Brooklyn we are justly proud of Brooklyn and we want to keep it a better place to live in that is not possible under the present conditions we of the assembly of Brooklyn Jewish women's organizations live with the needs of the people we of the assembly had to dispense with our evening meetings which are very vital to the good and welfare of Brooklyn due to inadequate police protection in fact Brooklyn has grown with its outlying districts to a tremendous numerical force we represent over 200 organizations meaning that we represent close on to 200,000 people that does not include their families I speak for the mothers I speak for the daughters and I speak for the fathers of these families who need and implore your honor to use his high office to see what can be done we're not economy experts we have no right to stand here and tell your honor how to get the money and from where to get the money you men with your analytical minds and the strategy that you your honor have had in measuring up to the needs of this city I think we'll know where and when to get the necessary amount to do the right thing for our city of which we are so justly proud we're grateful for this opportunity and we sincerely hope that we will hear from your honor and the powers that be that something will be done to help the commissioner police the city in the proper manner from now on and thank you Ms. Michaels you realize now that when we ask for an extra half of one percent from real estate which would give us the money to provide precisely what you're asking that we were turned down in the legislature for that now this is three years ago when we foresaw this and we made a faithful representation of our coming needs now honestly we did not I think get the wholehearted support of organizations of great influence in pressing for that some of that may have been our fault in not doing what Commissioner O'Brien is doing today and is bringing you and the heads of other organizations here so that you're acquainted with the need the fact is that every penny available is in this budget if we had the right to get that one half of one percent from real estate we would have had the money to do precisely what you're asking for and what I personally know should be done and what this board of estimates knew should be done three years ago now we we asked for it and put up a fight for it and we got all kinds of opposition and frankly I hope you'll take this message back to the ladies of your organization that this one half of one percent from real estate is an essential thing it's the only way in which we can get that huge sum of money that you have heard mentioned here today in only five of the hundred agencies and departments of the city you haven't heard from all of them you've just heard from five there are 104 all told but I just brought five in here to make out a case to pinpoint the great need for additional money the only place you can get it at the present time is from real estate everyone agrees that studied this question in Alderman privately or officially for the government agreed that we should have that right if it were granted to us at that time it would have been voted upon and undoubtedly passed last November just as the 150 million dollars for hospitals have passed and now we'd have had it and we could provide precisely the things that you want and that I agree with you that we need but we haven't got it now when this thing goes up again which it will I'm going to appeal to you and to the other organizations to get your united strength behind this demand from the legislature until you get it I don't see any hope of providing these adequate services that are so essential well I think your honor knows and I think I can say it with justifiable pride that whenever the assembly of Brooklyn Jewish women's organizations has been approached either by the various bureaus or the various agencies they have received a 100% cooperation and talking for the mothers again may I say that one juvenile delinquent or one horrible accident such as happened in Brooklyn costs a great deal more than a policeman to protect them that is true I want to thank you for the privilege of speaking this afternoon and I sincerely hope that your mayor with your very fine committee will see to it that something must be done even if something drastic must be done thank you thank you Mr. Miles I want to thank Mrs. Michaels for the support that she's given to the police department down through the years she's been a bulwark of strength to the police department in Brooklyn whenever we needed that kind of strength and I want to thank her that's right her whole organization Mr. Listrautman of the Staten Island Advance Mr. Mayor members of the Board of Estimate Staten Island was a part of New York City for a long time before the present administration recognized it before that is before 1946 it was not recognized but that didn't end all our problems for instance that fine new ferry terminal which you provided for us down there presents a number one police problem when it is open and in full operation there will be at least nine traffic policemen needed for each of two tours of duty there are also the beaches however traffic precinct R now only has 23 men on the roster that leaves five men to handle millions of cars which come over the port authority bridges and use the municipal ferries other illustrations of why we need more police on Staten Island this is small stuff I realize in a city the size of New York but for Staten Island it's very important in the so-called Tottenville precinct that's the 123 precinct I believe in area it's one of the largest in the city frequently it has only one motor patrol car in operation at night there are probably 150 miles of streets to be covered in the St. George precinct there are supposed to be 14 motor patrol districts frequently not all of them are man obviously if they were I want to warn you that you're making out an awfully good case for an automobile tax tell Dan Hopper I said so as Dan Hopper would expect me to say we'll consider it that's what Dan would say too obviously if all these motor patrol areas were covered Willie Sutton wouldn't have hung around quite so long on Staten Island there's a particular problem on Staten Island we're growing just as the rest of the city is residentially that is but we're not concentrated we're being spread out over many square miles and that presents great problems getting our children to and from school as you're probably well aware probably in the average year on Staten Island we lose four or five of our children in vehicular accidents and percentage wise it's a great number and along these lines that's why we're backing the commissioner in his appeal thank you very much Mr. John J. Foley the Chamber of Commerce of the Borough of Queens Mr. Mayor I am here as a stand-in for Frank O'Hara the president of the chamber who was detained to inform the board that the Chamber of Commerce has unanimously approved the request that is under consideration here today of Commissioner O'Brien for additional personnel for his department now the chamber don't consider the these problems unless they're of a broad nature covering the entire borough and unless they felt unless they feel that we're not in conflict with any of the local neighborhoods in our community who may have different views on the matter to be considered early in the year Commissioner O'Brien graced our meeting he spoke at one of our luncheon meetings and in the casual way he mentioned some of the problems that he is facing as the commissioner of his department and as a result of that talk the board of directors studied the actual figures of the department and as it was brought out here we have less policemen there now than we had 20 years ago now I don't want to presume on the time of the board by going into all the details and telling you how three or four cities have sprung up within the confines of the borough and I don't want to go into the details of explaining to you how uneasy the owners of one family houses in our borough are because of the fact that they feel that the moral support so necessary to observing the law in the figure of a uniformed man on the post that are not there I could go in probably give you a lot of details about children who are being molested by mentally upset persons even in the public schools but you don't need that from me so all I want to say is I'm not here as a tax expert I can't tell you what our organization will do on the sales tax because it's not a vest pocket outfit we have 50 members of our board of directors and they decide these policies for all fellows like myself to come down and tell our story and I'm very happy to say that we're very proud not only of Commissioner O'Brien but all of the personnel in the police department and the splendid job they're doing in the borough of Queens thank you how many more have you got Commissioner O'Brien we have a lot of got about 50 or 60 more people I think you ought to I think you ought to list the names with the secretary and permit me to thank them for coming here I assume they've come to support your plea and no use in having them stay here all day long there are others who want to be heard on other matters in the general budget I think you've made out a case the question is where will we get the money I don't think you need another witness on that point well General if I may take this a few moments to express my deep appreciation to these good people who have come here as I pointed out in the beginning there are people who have during my administration in the police department written to me or I have met with them on public occasions they've supported me and they came here for that purpose today and I'd like to have the opportunity to express to them my very deep appreciation for giving their time to coming and supporting the police department and its efforts to get additional help will you note their appearance here so that we can contact them again when we I have a card which has been made out for each individual who each organization represented and the individual represented the organization will you give them to the secretary yes sir thank you how many are there of 60 there's about 50 or 60 more well ladies and gentlemen who have come down for this specific purpose on behalf of the board of estimate and myself we're deeply grateful to all of the representatives of organizations and individuals who have come here to support did you want to speak madam come on come up let's hear you this is Mrs. Holden yes Mrs. Holden thank you Mr. Mayor members of the board of estimate I'm glad the young lady got me up for one particular reason anyway that is no one has spoken about the women of Queens yet you know we live in that borough where there are many new streets many new homes many new developments and not so many policemen we really have a wonderful force they are very cooperative and I think when we say they are the world's finest we are certainly not exaggerating at all but we do need extra policemen and we as women there I feel realize that perhaps more than anyone else for instance I in particular go out almost every night to various civic organizations and at home they worry that something is going to happen before I get home because of the fact that Queen Street are dark traffic is heavy and we do not have as many policemen as we need as mothers we worry about our children three weeks ago in a public school in Queens two children were attacked in one afternoon granted policemen aren't supposed to be in school buildings but on the other hand if we had more of them patrolling the streets they would be more apt to catch these men who get into buildings and cause these difficulties in the same week at Jamaica High School at night time a young lady was attacked in a telephone booth and they were then warned not to walk alone if we had more policemen things of that type would not happen now you say where will I get the money a couple of years ago we had a terrific snowstorm and you got the money to get rid of it it was over $10 million I think you had to spend to get rid of it a few more years back you had an awful hurricane that caused terrific damage and we got the money now certainly the police department is the main department in this city if we didn't have them we couldn't have the streets clean the department of sanitation would have to ask for twice as much money to get them clean because of people littering the streets if we didn't have policemen to control traffic you wouldn't be able to get people to the hospital because traffic would be a mess so therefore the police department is really the most important department to keep law in order and actually an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure if you have to get people arrest them follow through on crimes and then bring them into court it costs the city a lot more money than it does if you get a policeman first and pay his salary and let him prevent the crime in closing may I say too that in many cases perhaps a policewoman can do just as good and maybe even a better job in some particular cases so don't forget include the policewoman with the policemen and also don't forget Queens is the neglected borough be sure that we get our share because up to this point per capita we have less policemen than in any other borough thank you very much don't leave for a moment madam you talked about getting the money for that snow you talked about getting the money for the hurricane at that time the city had not reached the legal limit of what it could get from real estate but the costs have gone up since the war to a point where we are now at the limit and we can't get any more now we saw that coming and three years ago we asked for the right to get one half of one percent that would require the passage in two separate legislatures of a resolution and to be voted upon last November by the people that was denied to us by the legislature now we find ourselves completely hemmed in by the law as to what we can take from real estate and there isn't any other place to go except by some special taxes it isn't just exactly as it was at the time that you speak that's one of the reasons why we were so anxious to have that resolution adopted by the legislatures and passed upon by the people we are now confronted with the emergency that we foresaw three years ago due to the fact that the legislature didn't go along with our request it's not as easy to do it now as it was at the times that you speak thank you very much may I suggest that with cooperation for the coming session of the legislature in as much as our state has a constitution which actually is very unfair very undemocratic and since we in New York City are being penalized we are not being taxed according to representation we in the city pay far more than we should may I suggest that with the cooperation of civic groups and you officials in the coming year that we make mighty sure that we get into office people who will be fair to the people of the city of New York give us the funds that we should get into proportion in proportion to what we pay into the state legislature and if we all work together I think we can get it what you mean is that we'll be fair to the whole state and not unfair to the city of New York that's right that's right we agree on that general there are a few people who came here prepared to say as a matter of fact they all came prepared to say something but they're willing to forfeit that opportunity but there are some that came with resolutions the Grand Jurors Association of Brooklyn Mr. Yacinda and a few others that would like just a moment Mr. Yacinda Mr. Mayor members of the Board of Estimate I'm not here to give you any figures or facts after listening to all the reports that you've been given here today but I'm here as president of the Kings County Grand Jurors Association and I represent 750 members all executives and some retired it is an average family of five to each member therefore I represent 3,700 people our association saw fit to pass a resolution last week being in accord with the request made by the commissioner here today to increase the personnel and I know the time is getting short here Mr. Mayor and General before you ask me that question as far as the automobile tax is concerned I personally am in accord with it when I'm going to take that up with the executive board Friday and if I see fit to have that resolution passed to have that automobile tax maybe you have something as far as getting more policemen I do hope and trust that that will be the next move on my part thank you Mr. President Mr. Holmes from the Bronx Chamber of Commerce Mr. Holmes Mr. Mayor Board of Estimate I spoke before Mr. Mayor and I only want to put our organization on record because in 1948 we asked for an increase in the police force at that time and we were told at that time that the budget could not find it necessary for the police force to be increased the Bronx has had long cases of vandalism robbery traffic hazards and the like not because of the inefficiency of the police department but because of the inadequacy of the force to cope with the situation the commissioner a moment ago described the outlying boroughs as growing communities we're more than that Mr. Mayor we represent 1,600,000 people we're bigger than the city of Boston Cleveland Pittsburgh or St. Louis and we need more police because we have so many people and so many varied population centers we represent not just big business Mr. Mayor but little merchants like the Southern Boulevard Chamber of Commerce Westchester Square Chamber Eastchester Road 204th Street and Wakefield and the first question that those little merchants ask when we go in to ask for a membership is what is the Chamber of Commerce doing about more police and the answer here Mr. Mayor is in the letter that I'm going to present and file I won't even bother to read because I'm not going to waste any more time thank you Mr. Holmes who else is the Commissioner there are a few more General Mr. Byron Forrester Chairman of the Safety of Queens County Grand Juris for one moment for one minute I don't know Mayor Dwyer I bring you salutations from the Queens County Grand Juris Association and gentlemen of the Board of Estes I've lived in Queens County 35 years Your Honor I've seen Queens grow from farms to communities we have a million four hundred and fifty thousand people in Queens County today and I want to take this opportunity before you to congratulate Commissioner O'Brien Chief Inspector Flake and Chief Lawyers of the Traffic Department I work continually with these men that is my job I've done it for three years I've had cooperation that you should feel proud of as the Mayor of the City of New York but to a limited degree now I'd like to bring just a few facts to your attention and I will be very short and brief in Queens County Your Honor we have more park systems and parkway systems than the entire city of New York or to a degree a great part of the state of New York we have all of Grand Central Parkway that's in New York City up to the Nassau Line we have all of Southern States Parkway we have all of Cross Island Parkway with one little stretch that goes into the Borough of Kings and we have 9% of the Police Department in Queens County we don't think that that is by any means enough to give us remote protection out there and I'm appealing to you Mr. Mayor because we all hold you very highly as our friend we've got to find money somewhere for the County of Queens that county as I said has a million four hundred and fifty thousand men we have more homes built and building than any community in the United States and we must have police protection now if we can cooperate with you and you know we are always willing to do that we are solidly behind anything that we can help you to help the police department thank you sir very much general I will now ask that we be permitted to file the names of those present yes let me thank each and every one who has come here not only for the police department but in support of the commissioners to show the people of the city the support that they have in their demands what will be done about these demands ladies and gentlemen depends upon the amount of money that we can possibly find don't ask me today about that because that's going to be a job thank you very much these people are here to speak on the budget as a whole knowledge we'll have to hear them you're listening to the budget hearings in the board of estimate room in city hall presided over by the mayor of the city of new york the honorable william o'dwyer and the various organizations that are represented here concerning themselves with the budget hearing today and these sessions will continue until friday another session tomorrow another the next day will you kindly let us know your reaction you the people of the city of new york because your city radio station keeps you thoroughly informed and makes it possible for you to attend these meetings which would be a physical impossibility because of the limitations of city hall so please let us know if you do not appreciate and enjoy these opportunities to be better citizens through the knowledge of your city please write your city station and now the mayor wnyc am we'll now hear speakers according to their position on this list addressed to the budget generally first name here is miss charlotte carr committee on children of new york mr mayor and members of the board of estimate this has been a thrilling day in this atmosphere and with this recognition of the real needs of the people of this big growing city i think my appeal which is across the board in all of the departments for the best interests of the children of new york city will receive real consideration it was a tight and a bad budget for children no question about it mr mayor and i want to point out certain spots where that seemed to me to be so certain spots where it could be where it was so that could be rectified actually with a minimum expenditure of money i think we saw as we analyzed the budget a trend in three directions that i'd like to bring to you in the budget analysis a trend that i think was nobody's fault but a trend that i think should be changed by a real study with commissioner patterson and those representatives of our disinterested committee of professional persons in all of the areas of child service in this city we see this happening where a salary is so low that there are a lot of vacancies in that category we seem to get new positions open i give us an illustration and i'd like to start with the health department and may i say i'm a little disappointed that you did not have your commissioner of health here because he has a strong tale to tell in terms of the needs of your health department take the nurses salaries now i don't want to talk on salaries except as an illustration of something else in relation to them the reason i don't want to is that i don't want to talk to deaf ears and i'm also aware of your problem 2400 dollars annual for a salary for a trained nurse is absurdly low at a time when all of the public services are offering 2640 for practical nurses you have only 800 nurses positions in the health department now filled and you have a vacancy of 200 and perhaps more than 200 nurses but you give us in this budget additional nurses now our position is this and it seems to me to make a great deal of sense don't fill that up as a contribution for accruals with new nurses if you can't get them now there are people who are in the professions and work with children are funny people and they're swell people and they'll often work at a low salary if while they're working they have an opportunity to get the supervision that increases their skills and their opportunity to serve to permit more nurses mr patterson with all of the vacancies that you now have for nursing services in the health department and to refuse any of the positions for supervisory nurses that have been asked for just doesn't make sense because your only hope of filling the vacancies you now have is to have sufficient supervision that those nurses can really have a sense that they have an opportunity in this job for training even though their opportunity for salary is mighty low now I'd like to give another illustration from the health department I'm old enough mr. mayor to remember when we used to talk all around the place about how important it was that professional women got the same job salary for a job as professional men did the strange thing about the health department budget is that it would appear if a doctor is working in the children's services his salary just is lower you can get specialist salaries 7,000 and plus for the experts in cancer for the experts in heart illnesses for all types of jobs but wait till the person is a pediatrician doing the most precious and important job on earth analyzing and training and teaching the people who serve with children and then you have a salary so low that the number of vacancies that you have at the minute are appallingly dangerous in terms of responsibilities that those people have to carry now you've spoken this afternoon I think twice I've heard the question of this wonderful new service for the premature babies if you have it in your budget I don't know where it is to pay the hospitals the additional from six to twelve dollars a day that you're going to pay when these premature babies are saved and are gotten into the hospitals so let's find somewhere and we can't find it where the money is going to come from to pay the hospitals that are taking these children saved through your ambulance service into the hospital for their care in the what? You mean the volunteers? No I mean the hospitals themselves The city hospitals Oh baby hospitals city hospitals but you have many other hospitals in which you pay a fee you ought to pay and you agreed to pay a fee of twelve dollars a day for these children in the hospitals not city hospitals and previous to your having all the equipment in your public hospitals for this care they haven't received any money they must receive that money the promise of twelve dollars a day is expected and that money should be in the budget you know what I'm talking about Miss Patterson don't you? What is Miss Carr referring to Miss Patterson? Twelve dollars a day for these premature children when they are brought into hospitals that are not city hospitals and the hospitals like the baby's hospitals that have the equipment to give adequate care for those babies once they get there where was that Now there was an appropriation Where was that agreement made? Yes yes Commissioner I just want you to be sure that somewhere in this budget you bundle up that amount of money a small amount of money but money that we can't find either in your charitable institution budget and the suspicion that we have is that that money may have to go out of your health department budget budget and you can ill afford it because you need the money that you have there for so many other services and then there's another strange thing in that health department budget that really is fascinating you yourself in your budget statement Mr. Mayor spoke of the saving that resulted from a study made by Dr. Jules Coleman a study of what would be necessary in the health department to have a real mental hygiene bureau that study was made by an expert and it made sense and it saved money but what you did in your budget was not only eliminate those positions that were recommended as being saved but you didn't give the director you didn't give the as an actual fact Commissioner Patterson you saved that bureau right out of existence we've had money for that mental hygiene bureau in the health department for two years now what you have left of it is 260 and my figures might not be accurate I can get the accurate figure if you want me to of sessions for psychiatric services at only $12 a session and a session isn't one hour Mr. Mayor how much did they use last year of the appropriation they didn't use any of it last year you've never got this going and yet as a service this service which would make it possible to train your nurses and your doctors who meet with your children in the schools who meet always and the babies in the well baby hospital the mental hygiene point of view so that when they're talking to the parents and when they're planning for the child they see not only the physical disability but the emotional disturbances that may also be basic to what's wrong with the child that bring back that bureau of mental hygiene or don't waste your money on those sessions for psychiatric services at $12 an hour because you'll never get anyone who will do it now you have other psychiatric services in the health department where you pay $25 an hour I'd like to jump now don't jump too soon okay this is grand from my point of view I want to talk to you about this good the report of the budget director as I understand it points out that the expert said the board of health should not go into the training program it should have a consulting set up that's right but where are the consultants where's the director for it it isn't in the budget that we can find it now if we're wrong and believe me you can well be wrong when you analyze that budget we should be delighted and we'll tell you so but we've analyzed it pretty carefully you have to find you have to have a very clear line of demarcation between what the hospital does and what the health department does oh yes but I'm talking about the health department I know so am I and I'm also talking about that study to which you refer yes the expert very definitely I'm told said that the health department should not go into the direct training that's right that belonged that's where you saved your money that belonged in the hospital department the direct treatment that's right but that the health department should maintain a consulting force that's right and you haven't got it and an in-service training now that's in the budget where is it in the budget alright I mean really in all honesty I suspect you're going to find it got slipped out and all I ask is that you put it back in it's in we'll show it you later send that somewhere well then then let's us if it isn't in it will be in yeah that's the important finding now in connection with the hospital department that was a wonderful demonstration this morning of the needs of the hospital department I can't help but say however as a woman and I know that Dr. Kogel doesn't want me to say this I think the people of this city and I know you all of the board of estimate who got soap and towels and toilet paper for the children in the public schools are probably not aware of the fact that the hospitals of the city of New York don't wash their windows they literally don't they can't afford to now in the tubercular ward for children at Bellevue hospital with a magnificent view of the east river the screens are on the window Mr. Mayor year after year they don't take them off in winter because there's no one to do it and they don't clean them and they don't put the hose on them and they don't wash them and you can go on a day as good as this into that tubercular ward and you can squint through the view as though you're walking in a deep forest now Dr. Kogel tells me not to do this and I'm not asking for it in this budget but as we consider the needs and the housekeeping job that is that of yours in the board of estimate let's remember that we haven't money you do a little washing on the inside maybe here and there on the outside but there's no plan for washing the windows of these beautiful hospitals that we have in this city and that kind of a thing just worries a woman to death when she goes through hospitals and certainly has a very serious effect I think where is this in the children's ward? well the place I'm describing is the children's ward and the TB part of the children's ward at Bellevue hospital the screens will be on now they will be last summer screens or the summer before if they've been washed it since two weeks and there's no appropriation for doing it and Dr. Emmett Holton I stood there and my suggestion to him and he looked a little appalled and I don't suppose I am built for a window washer but I darn near wanted to do them and do them right there and I think any of you in this room would wash them up once for the benefit of the children in that TB ward you have no money though for that in that budget now there's another item in the hospital budget that's awfully important and such a small item Mr. Bayer you have 150 volunteers wonderful women that are helping in your hospitals but who are wasting their time and not doing their maximum service for lack of a few supervisors not one of those supervisors that were asked for by Dr. Kogel are in this budget as I read the budget now medical social workers in the hospital department get 2700 plus they get more money in the welfare department again if you can't get more medical social workers at least have supervision for the training of those you do have what does a medical social worker do you know that prepares for the the sick person getting home prepares to see the people at the home to take them to understand what the patient's problem is a situation that's important with all patients but peculiarly important with the children you have too few of them they have too little supervision and that's an item that I can't help but include among these great big items that this item of the x-ray machine impresses me as it must all of you that we should have all this elaborate x-ray equipment for only an eight hour day when it can run 24 hours simply for lack of staff to step a three shift in that service as a result of which people stay in the hospital maybe six days to two weeks longer than they would because they haven't got their analysis no one yet knows what's wrong with them all of that additional delay and misery and heartache and cost to the city now let me jump to another department that also should have been on your rostrum of services that need a lot of special care today the domestic relations court Mr. Mayor the domestic relations court is almost the stepchild in your administration and yet it has some of the finest judges and some of the finest people developing the most creative job in terms of saving children from delinquency that we have in this city now here's a funny thing though about these matter of when you need people when you can get when you can get people somehow they don't get in the budget when you can't they're in that budget now this is what the presiding justice Hill has done he has made up a special unit this year for a study of those cases of truancy that come to the children's court he has taken six of his probation officers to make that study as the cases come through and in the short time that that study has been going on there has been tremendous evidence as to what you can do for these children with planning and through the help of probation officers to prevent their being truants which of course is the first step in the direction of their being delinquents and eventually criminals the chief justice has asked for only 11 new only 11 new Mr. Mayor probation officers he knows he needs more I know he needs more six of these were to be for the special service in the study of the truants seven were for the very very thin probationary service we give to the family courts not one of those positions were granted neither was a supervisory position granted and yet here are all of these new people coming in in this case they do come in because you've got a civil service examination you can fill those jobs but you're going to fill them with new people and again you need supervision to make the work they do add up to something now what's the work they do they keep children in their homes where they fail the city starts to pay money and mighty big money in taking care of these children in institutions and there is this other service treatment service where we've had evidence time after time after time that certain children under real psychiatric treatment can be saved from an institutional experience and live in their homes we had one unit the youth board presents another unit if the youth board pulls out and it won't be because the city wants it to do it but if the youth board has to pull out because the state says they've tried they've shown their experiment and now it's up to the city to pay the bill if that happens you've got four to five hundred children a year for whom you have knowingly and deliberately and at great expense permitted to go into overcrowded institutions rather than to be treated and cared for in their own homes now I don't like to argue with a lady oh well I like it and we've done it before Mr. Mayor you say we have knowingly and deliberately done something which hasn't happened yet no no that's what oh yes well make that clear if you do this you will have done it knowingly and leave out the deliberate that's right and I might go along with it that's right if a certain thing happens the city would have to do it that's right I do apologize for that it is my honest conviction as I stand here that every item that I have listed unless there is a difference on the basis of fact when we go over it well let me tell you there will be items to which you agree let me tell you about one of them yeah the window washing in the hospitals yes if you look in the budget a little closer you'll find $30,000 in there for a contract for window washing in hospitals I'm not impressed with that do you know what it would cost to wash the windows of just Bellevue Hospital for one year well $30,000 in the budget she said there wasn't anything there yes you do have a small item in that but anybody will tell you $30,000 for washing windows just go there anybody will tell you what a small proportion that is of the cost anybody who runs look at your window of washing costs in this building in the municipal building in any of your office buildings and you will see that that is a drop in the bucket and wash a lot of windows for $30,000 well I hope so and I hope you can and I hope you include the TV windows in the children's division of Bellevue but Dr. Kogel will tell you himself all hospital windows Ms. Carr all hospital windows include them all well I only suggest that you ask Dr. Kogel how many windows in the hospitals he thinks can be kept approximately clean with that amount of money and remember it was Dr. Kogel who said to me I don't well I you know how he put it was clear too about window washing in the light of the other needs and I agreed with him but as a woman I couldn't quite fail to put it on the record that we had to keep the hospital windows clean yeah but you didn't put it on the record right you said there was nothing in there for window washing and there's $30,000 in there $30,000 yeah for window washing for all of the hospitals of New York City that's right well if I said that there wasn't any I knew that was wrong I knew you had a small amount of money for that and I know that in Maine it's used for washing the windows on the inside and I know it's a rare episode when you get it washed on the outside and I also know how many other jobs because of the crises in the hospital that those window washers have to do I think Dr. Kogel will verify that story this is a contract job yes this is to be contracted with professional window washers well I can get an estimate many of you could get one better if you think $30,000 a year will wash the windows of the hospitals even in the TV ward in the absence of a history of the facts this is not the time to say that it's not enough you'd have to admit well you see my prejudice comes from having been through the hospitals and probably a more conscious of that type of thing than a lot of people are and they just aren't clean Mr. Mayor when we came in first there were hospital wards in our municipal hospitals that hadn't been painted for 15 years that's right I know all of that and I'm not even asking that that be in your budget this year in the light of the other needs but I do think the public ought to begin to be aware as it understands the cost of government that this too is a mighty important item now in connection with the children's court or the domestic relation court the things that we're asking there are comparatively so small and yet so fundamental that I do urge that there be a reconsideration of those items supervisors for the probation we'll listen to that court when it comes up on the calendar now we come to the welfare department I think I needn't take much time in terms of the whole question of the welfare budget as it applies to the people on relief aid to dependent children and so forth because the board of estimate and the mayor have all made it clear that they want and expect an adequate relief budget that I genuinely believe you mean and that you will get it but again in the welfare department is the old old problem of not having adequate supervision for the type of staff that you have to have at the salaries you pay and in the children's division or the child welfare bureau it is in the welfare department there are requests for supervisory positions that are of such importance well one of them has this importance the collection of the funds from the families who pay as much as they can for support of their children in institutions a mighty important position and a position of responsibility and a position where you can't have inexperienced field workers do the job without adequate supervision that's one illustration there are at least three minimum now this is small in terms of the big needs but it's mighty important actually mighty important to the welfare of children in the city and in this case it actually collects you money but I would like to emphasize and then I am done because although I'd like to talk in the schools tomorrow is school day and there'll be other people who will present the school needs you have it 205th Street and 5th Avenue really a wonderful organization which was established in this administration which is run by the welfare department and which is doing a perfectly amazingly fine job you have 360 children there from the ages of 2 to 16 years of old plus boys and girls all under one roof and how you do as well as you do I can't say but what has happened and I know you're aware of this Mr. Mayor is that because of inability to find a long-term place for these children who in theory are here only for temporary care nearly half of those children aren't going to be on temporary care two-thirds are going to be there longer than 90 days so you're in for a long-term program and I know Mr. Mayor you remember the meeting that we had from the temporary shelter care commission when we spoke of the importance of a special building and special services for those children who were going to have to be a long time in the institution they asked for 21 counselors in this budget so that those children all disturbed children all children with some kind of a problem or they would be placeable or almost all in that condition we asked for 21 they asked for 21 additional counselors to help those children and they didn't get it now that I feel confident will come in your new budget you remember that item too it's a new service because they are now daring to do what they could hardly do without they're separating the children who they know are going to have to stay a longer time because they've been there so long a time and they're trying to do a special program for them which is reasonable which is really required a program that's very different than the need although that's big enough that comes for those children who are there only for a 30 to 60 day period Mr. Mayor this is all I have to say I do feel that an opportunity to go over these items again to be certain with someone to be certain that you know that I know what I'm talking about even if I did err on the matter of the window washing and I still think evidence will indicate that $30,000 is mighty little money for that purpose well don't don't expect an argument from me on that point because you'd have the last word by nature of your sex well it isn't it isn't a pleasure that we always get and it honestly isn't one that we insist on but I want the maximum service and I don't want an extravagant service for these children and I believe that the points that I have made are points so important that you will go over them carefully when you reconsider your budget thank you Mr. Mayor now we have Mrs. Joyce Stanley Women's City Club the Women's City Club congratulates the Mayor and the Board of Estimate on the longer period of time this year between the publication of the budget and these scheduled hearings which gave civic groups an opportunity to study it more thoroughly on the budget as a whole and the long term problem the Women's City Club several years ago made a considerable study of the financial situation and came and came to the conclusion that the constitutional tax limit should be raised from 2% to 2.5% and we have supported such an increase for several years both in the city and upstate agenda to the and together the and the burgende and I love to make-up Six additional probation officers were requested for the school part of the Children's Court. These probation officers are needed to handle the very severe cases of truancy. We believe that funds expended for adequate trained supervision of these children at an early stage can prevent very serious delinquency and possible crime later, which will be, of course, of much greater cost to the city if you think of only the financial side. And we urge that these six probation officers be granted for this school part. With regard to the Children's Court, funds were requested for the second unit of the treatment clinic, heretofore financed by the Youth Board. We urge that if the Youth Board should discontinue financing this unit this year, that the city certainly provide the funds. With regard to the Magistrates' Court, the entire request for additional probation staff was denied. Now, for any socialized court, adequate probation staff is essential for carrying on rehabilitation. We are not in a position to know whether the entire amount of probation staff requested is essential, but we certainly urge that more probation officers and supervisory officers be provided for the Magistrates' Court, for a home term, for the Adolescents' Court, for the Girls' Term Court. Again, in this Magistrates' Court, we urge that funds be provided in the city for the psychiatric unit, if, again, the Youth Board fails to continue the support of this clinic. With regard to education, of course, the request of the department, as you know, has been drastically pruned. We touch on only a few of the cuts. 800 additional teachers were requested for the elementary schools. These were cut to 264. Now, the estimated pupil increase in the elementary schools has been placed at 17,000 pupils at a minimum for next year. We believe that many more teachers should be supplied in order not to reduce class sizes. Again... Do you have any idea what class size is now, Miss? I know that claims vary enormously from 60 as an average to 31 as an average. 31.7. That should... They should never go higher than that, Your Honor. That's what they are at the moment. But with the... It doesn't mean, of course, that you have larger classes, but on a basis of census, school, teachers, the average class is 31.7. Well, whether that... I also understand that the amount of money for teachers last year was not completely used. Is that right? You see, there's a reason for that cut. They didn't use all the money for teachers that they had last year. And what they have at the present time is adequate. With larger schools next year and a large pupil increase, I still don't see how that... We have estimated... That class size can be maintained. We have estimated on that basis... We have estimated on that basis... That you'll be able to continue that class size? There's also been a substantial cut in the request for supplies for elementary schools. Mr. Mayor, I would like to suggest one more... The entrance that I have is that our class size of the ratio might go up. And if anything, it's going to go down to 31.3 with the number of new school teachers that we have recommended in this budget. If it does go down, we'd be delighted, of course. With regard to the amount appropriated for educational supplies for the elementary schools, the amount allowed was only $3,400,000, which was even less than the provision allowed last year. Now, with many new schools opening and with the pupil increase, we think that cut is much too drastic. Well, I was pretty accurately arrived at by the Board itself. Organization after organization, Your Honor, as you know, has been before the Board of Education and complained that this year the supplies were inadequate. With regard to the Bureau of Child Guidance in the Board of Education, to function adequately at all, the eight additional supervisory positions requested for this Bureau should be granted. Many other positions were asked for this Bureau, but the eight supervisory positions, that is, four supervisors of psychology and four supervisors of social workers, should be granted in order that the present staff can be properly supervised. With regard to the hospital department, the commissioner asked for $818,000 approximately, for an increase in salary for the professional staff of the hospitals. They have long been paid less than comparable positions elsewhere. The hospital department is finding it continually more difficult to retain these men and to fill their vacancies. In order that this department may maintain the high standards of the past, these salary increases should really be granted. With regard to the Department of Health, we're mentioning only one item, namely public health nurses. The minimum salary is $2,400. Health nurses elsewhere are paid more at a start. The department cannot compete with private institutions. And in addition, it really needs the 150 additional nurses requested. But it will probably not be able to fill those positions without the requested salary increase. For years, the Women's City Club has urged an increase for the City Planning Commission, and we're delighted to find this year that really a substantial amount of money has been given the Planning Commission. We do notice that the Division of Community Planning Commission has been eliminated. We trust, however, that that Division, which we consider extremely important, that funds can be financed either under the Division of Master Plan, or that funds can be provided next year for this important part of planning for the City. Let's see what they do with what they've got first. Let's see what they do with what we do. All right. All right. We're willing to do that. But we want to stress that this is what we consider a very important part of their work. These requests are fairly small in all compared to the budget total. And we believe that you, as experts, can find the funds for these small increases. We do again emphasize that for the long-term budget planning, the tax limit will have to be raised, and we support that. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayek, as we come back tomorrow morning, the three of us will help you out, make the general statements. All short tomorrow morning. Do it now. All right. Short statements, Joe. I'd like to hear all the short statements. All right. Joseph Goss, the President of the Taxpayers Union. Mr. Mayor and members of the board, you've had a long day. You've played the pros and cons. But the taxpayers are in the same position as you are. We're up to our limit. We can't pay any more of taxes, especially a tax bill that'll be 25 points higher than this year. Our rents are frozen as of March 1st, 1949. And therefore, all our expenses will have to be frozen. There's only one way that I can see that you can get some additional money. You'll roll back all the salaries to March 1st, 1949. Now, the trustees of the City of New York have a sworn duty to administer duties, and they oppose them so there'll be no undue hardships of overtaxation against the property owners. The power to tax is the power to destroy. And you can only see that to be fair to the property owners, you've got to be fair to yourself and to be fair to the rent payers in the City of New York. You asked about an automobile tax. I got an idea. I think it'll work. How about a parking tax? Instead of being socked two, three times a month with a parking ticket, put on a parking license on that automobile. You'll get that money in. You'll save all that expense of going to court. You'll have the money in advance. And I don't think anybody will object except a few garage owners who put the cars out on the streets anyway after they collect your money. You'll put a parking permit on these cars in certain areas. Have it watched by a city watchman. You've got plenty of people in the unemployment relief, at least the welfare department doing nothing. We make watchmen out of them at night. Park them in the streets. Protect the cars so they're not broken into by criminals. And you'll get a nice income. And nobody will object. I'm sure you'll get two, three dollars a month out of every car for a parking permit in the city of New York without any objection. That will run you enough to put in two or three thousand extra police in which we need. Stores are being broken in night after night. Open street breaks that we haven't had for years. Apartments are being robbed. Fire escape robberies. And when we report it to the police department, we have no men. We send men out on patrol, but they have to cover three or four or five posts. They're in the book. They can't do police duty. Now there's no use of kidding ourselves, Mr. Mayor. You're doing a good job. You're trying to do what you can with what you have. But in order to get more policemen, which we all need, if you'd say that you want a special tax, a parking tax, to take the up, give you the necessary funds for these extra police, you're going to get it. And the citizens of New York know, because a lot of them have been victimized. It's unsafe to walk through the side streets on the west side tonight, or any other night from Central Park West to Columbus, and you get mugged. You haven't got a chance. People going to the synagogue are afraid to go there. There's no use of kidding ourselves about it. And I'm talking to you openly, because I like you. You've been a good mayor and you're a good fella. But you can't be a good fella and a good mayor at the same time. You got to put your foot down and tell these fellas to get on the job. Somebody somewhere is lax. And that's in all departments. You can't tell the man to get on the job, the man you haven't got. Well, you have some men. Now, let me, let's get into that a little bit. Yeah. The sanitation department. They're talking about dirty streets and papers on the streets. Everybody walks around complaining the streets are dirty. Look at the papers laying around. They don't pick up collections over the weekend and holidays, and everybody's squawking. It's Mayor O'Dwyer's fault. That's what you hear all over. You want to know the truth, I'm telling you. What's the matter with Mayor O'Dwyer? He's down in Florida where it's clean and everything up here is dirty. They're blaming. I said, listen. I said, listen, my friends, if you knew the truth about Mayor O'Dwyer, you wouldn't talk that way. Mayor O'Dwyer's a sick man and has been a sick man for a long time. And if he's willing to go out and convalesce and come back and be our mayor, we ought to be satisfied. Thanks, Joe. But he's too big a man to tell the people what really is the trouble of him. He's had a virus infection of the liver for a long, long time. And anybody else under similar conditions wouldn't even be sitting there today. And you know that's true and I know it's true. But it's about time somebody had the guts enough to tell the people the truth about it. These wisecracking commentators and these television guys are saying, the mayor of Florida, all that stuff. Why don't they get wise to themselves? Stop knocking. Do something progressive. Go out and tell the people to clean up the streets and don't throw the stuff out on the streets. They won't be blown back around. Joe, you get more money for making people laugh than you do for feeding them. Yeah, but it's more money not to kid the people all the time. The trouble with the previous administration, we've been kidding. We got nothing. You're trying to do a job. You're trying to do a job of what you got. But there's a lot of people in the city departments, in various departments that do nothing and get paid. They're just lazy. Now, I'll tell you one story. Wait a minute. I'll tell you what I saw with my own eyes. I saw three fellas in uniform in the sanitation department watching one guy sweep. One is a lieutenant, two captains. It's a Mexican army. Got too many generals and no workers. What's the use of kidding it? They're kidding you and they're kidding us. But they're not kidding me because I get around. I walk around and I hear from our association. I hear from our members. Somebody's got to shake up these fellas down the line. The commissioners are all right. They're trying to do a job and you're trying to do a job. You can't be all over at once. Somebody down the line is laying down on the job. And they should be shaking up. You'll get a better city. You'll get a better administration right down the line in every department. You take your law department. That's a good department. Doing an excellent job. Why can't the other departments do the same thing? They're doing a swell job of what they have. You take the fire department. What do they got? Three men go out on the back step at night. They got a top floor stretch. They're knocked out before they hit the top floor. You give them 45 firemen. What is 45 firemen and 300 companies? You got one seventh to one man. Don't mean nothing. We know that you need a couple of thousand more firemen. Everybody knows it. The taxpayers know it. We'll close up the zoological gardens and all that nonsense. We don't need that. We need bread and butter. We can't live on cake. Now before I conclude, I've got to say something to pat you on the back. Joe, I could sit here and listen to you all. All right. I know it's late. Thank you. I cannot conclude my remarks without replying to a news item, which appeared in the New York Times, April 5, 1950. Headline, quote, Teachers demand special work pay, end quote. The taxpayers union of the city of New York condemned the action taken by the high school teachers association held in the auditorium, the Washington Raven High School on April the 4th, wherein they threatened to stop all voluntary extracurricular activities beginning April 17th, unless, listen to the threat, each received an annual cost of living adjustment of at least $600. Only six teachers voted opposition, end of quote, and further reported, quote, that 2,817 teachers approved a strike. Think of that. A strike against extracurricular activities as of next July 1st, and that 628 were opposed, end of quote. We have come to a sad state in the management of the affairs of our city, when our employees have the brazen effrontery to threaten a strike against the city when they have been treated so well by this administration. Appearing in this news item was a statement by one William F. V. Saunders, vice president of the high school teachers association, accusing Mayor O'Dwyer of letting down his own board of education and demanding that Mayor O'Dwyer resign. Think of that. Calling him, quote, the voice mayor in the city's history, end of quote. The one to resign is the maker of the statement, Mr. Saunders. And while we're on this subject, all members of the teachers union of the city of New York should be asked to resign, because they're working against the interests of the taxpayers of the city of New York and the children of our city. Preaching and teaching against our form of government is a betrayal of their duties, and should be subject to departmental charges, and those who indulge in such tactics and actions should be dismissed from our educational system. We have no room for teachers of this type who are disloyal to the system and who attempt to bite the hand that feeds them. And we have no room in the city service for any reds, pinkos, or stinkos. Mr. Mayor, we taxpayers direct that you give them the bums rush wherever you find them, and we'll back you up 100% on this one. Don't be afraid. Order Mr. Shields to go to work pronto. Thank you. Bye, Joe. Sam, we want to hear from you. Why'd you say I didn't hear? I said goodbye. Good luck. Thank you. Sam. Mr. Mayor, if Harold Riggleman was here, I believe he and I would probably disagree on a great many problems of questions. Of course, I've known Harold for many, many years up in Albany, and on any question at all why Harold, if it was white, he'd say it was black, and if it was black, it would say it was white. Oh, now wait a minute. Harold is a nice fellow. He is a nice fellow. He says nice things about you, too. He's a nice fellow. Beg pardon, Mr. Mayor? He's a nice fellow, and he said nice things about you. Well, I say nice things about him also. I disagree with him. You're not going to be long, are you? No, I'm not, Mr. Mayor. I'm not going to be long at all. However, Mr. Mayor, there's no question, I'm not disagreeing with the budget, sir. Be stupid on my part. And after all those of us who live on this side of the aisle at all hearings, know the problems of the Board of Estimate, are knowing any and all problems. We know the necessities of the various departments, whether it's police, sanitation, or any other department in this city, but New York or hospitals. So we don't disagree, Mr. Mayor. Instead of that, Mr. Mayor, I'm going to try to confine myself for a few moments on the question of getting additional funds. One of them I'm heartily in accord, sir, on the question of increase for an automobile tax. I favor that, sir, at the hearing before the city council, and I'm certainly in favor of that, sir, at the present time. Mr. Mayor, for many years, sir, as you well know, during your administration and preceding administrations, I have stood, sir, right here and advocated the increase of a transit fare. Those of us who live transit facilities, whether here and also prior to the time of the Public Service Commission. I have a question. Personally, sir, I think one of the nicest things that the Mr. Caesar at Albany did, notwithstanding their opinion up there, when they saw a call, they said they passed the buck to the city administration and giving the city the power for regulating transit fares. I don't think it's a hot potato at all, Mr. Mayor. I think the hot potato is a hot foot up in Albany. Mr. Mayor, I think the fares, I mean, I'm not going to go into it. Mr. Mayor making $820,000.ć Sadly, sir, I mean, I'm not going to go into any Yea. This Gospel's Office, Tony. I'm going to say this is an announcement system, forward to meeting means that Bill Miller on that. Thank you, Tedattleman for theings andare and the crews and the Law and the police stripped of the city staff. Mr. Brian Gill, I can thank my hope to you, and I have a comment for the people who have gathered at all of these� quarantines andécirens. Mr. Mayor, I think the issues of Governor and Senator Schl才'REs 2 million are going to be held to house י, in property. I call them, and we should start 40 babies, but we should don't think no together... I've got pSpoters until our fellow one-half mistress to the transit sir, just a question of getting funds. My opinion sir, the fares of the City of New York should be increased to a 10 cent fare. Instead of taking money out of the general fund for the Board of Transportation, that money could remain there and that general fund money could be utilized for purposes which you well know sir, we City of New York need. Another point, sir Mr. Mayor, and that is this a very important one sir, and I'm very happy to know and have read in the newspapers and felt sir, that what we need while we cannot get at the present time without state approval is the legalizing of off-of-the-track betting. You know Mr. Mayor, you came out publicly for that at times when I stood here and advocated that, well I was sort of ridiculed, but I'm glad sir that I'm not standing alone on that question. The only point sir, and I make it again, that I made right here sir when you were some present, that I've yet to hear some other officials of the City of New York to come out and have the guts enough to say yes, we need, we need that particular question sir, solved, and that is to legalize off of the track betting on horses. A hundred million dollars sir, you know and I know, could be brought in to the City of New York by legalizing that. We would eliminate a great many men of the police force, no question about that, who are trying to police this particular problem. That would bring in millions of dollars Mr. Mayor. Let's be realistic about it. Let's kid ourselves. I mean, we don't have to clown each other sir. I know I've never clowned the Board of Estimates, and the Board of Estimates, sir, under your administration, I've never attempted to clown. Sure we have a little fun once in a while, it's necessary sir. But as a practical matter, definitely, the very same men, the very same bookmakers, would be the first ones, and I'm not talking about the little fella that takes the one dollar bid under his arm standing on a corner who's a runner. The real bookmakers would be tickled to death to do a straight legitimate business and pay their proper share, the same as any broker down on Wall Street paid. The worst possible argument you could give in favor of it. That is the worst possible argument you could give in favor of it. As what sir? Because if there was a decent licensing of that industry from the state government, they wouldn't permit anyone who did it in violation of law to get a license. I say they wouldn't violate any law Mr. Mayor, the more than the more than the dirt prohibition Mr. Mayor. However, it's beside the point and the hours getting late. I know that Mr. Mayor. Let's get down to something more reasonable. Well that, that sir, I don't want to go into a question now coming on back sir. I've heard the question of taxing real estate people. Hang them why don't we? Let's put a rope around them and hang them. Now let's be realistic. I stood right here sir and also in the committee when we had the very city rental laws down here. We had them in Albany, we had them in Washington. Now we've got, what have we got out of Albany? For the interest of the real estate people. Most wonderful bill in the world. When I, when I said right here sir at the time of the Joe Sharkey bill, see, notwithstanding, I never called that a political measure at all, that I was a hang rope for the real estate people. And now we've got a taxing probably another 20 points. Mr. Mayor, if I tell you, and that's the truth, I don't have to kid you because I don't intend to do, this new city rent bill has put me behind the eighth ball. Now that's the truth. That, that new state bill and the city bill, notwithstanding anything, has definitely bankrupt me. Definitely. Now that's the truth. So that's how good a bill that is, Mr. Mayor, from the standpoint. And now we're going to tax them about another 20 points. Take it out on the real estate people. Take it out on the real estate people. Sure. With all respect, sir, you can't take it out on the real estate people. Let's be honest about it and realistic about it. I'm not crying for them. I don't cry for myself. Never did. And I don't be scared easily, Mr. Mayor, either. But it's not in the cards. You know that, you know that the mortgagees today, when the mortgage is due, demand amortization beyond the ability to pay? You know that as such as the city of New York, you cannot get a mortgage renewed. You know why? You know that the truth, Mr. Mayor? It costs probably the skin of the tenants living up there is a little darker than yours or mine. Definitely, they will not renew a mortgage at any rate of interest. And the mortgage is due. Tell you something further than that, Mr. Mayor. That's impractical. Take it out on the real estate people. Sure. Why not? Tax them. Send them to the morgue. Why not? What difference does it make? As a matter of fact, Mr. Mayor, that's all correlated. I'm for everything that's been proven to the city of New York, barring none. I stood right here, sir, and I battled for the matters that come up before this board in the interest of the people of the city of New York, as against my own interest that I represent the real estate people, whether it's on hospitals or what have you. Mr. Mayor, you know that the mortgages, a year before the mortgages due and a year and a half before they do, you know what they say, Mr. Mayor? Come in. A year from now or two years from now, you will want to reduce your mortgage. You want a renewal in there? Give us some money now on account. That's what they're doing, Mr. Mayor. That's the truth. And then we come on back here and say, hang the real estate people. Now we've got a wonderful new law again of the state, freezing the rents as of March 1949, where the federal government says, look, you're entitled to an increase. You should have gotten it, but no. The state of New York says, no, you cannot get it. Most wonderful bill, Mr. Mayor. I've got a rope around my neck. The same has thousands of others. Whether you believe it or not, that's the truth. Those increases were to save the interest of thousands of property interest in the city of New York. Men who have left the states who are thought to take care of their children and their grandchildren find a day they cannot pay the bills. I spoke to a coal man yesterday. What are you doing on your coal? Sam, he said, we cannot sell coal today. But very few instances. Because the landlord or the owner, whatever you want to call them, or the shylock, I don't give a tinker's rap what you call them. But it is the truth. They cannot pay the 1949 coal bills. That is the truth, Mr. Mayor. In most instances, they haven't got the money. It just isn't in the cards. The operating expenses more than the only salvation he might have had, Mr. Mayor, is non-vacancies. Very few vacancies. To offset that. But his costs are more than the meeting of the lawn up there, Mr. Mayor. That, sir, is the truth. But don't hang the real estate man. Give him a break, too. For your information, I need a break now. I and thousands of others need a break. Talk to the controller there. He understands real estate pretty well. He knows. I have known the controller for many, many years as a personal friend. He's acquainted with plenty of real estate people. He knows their problems. That is the truth, Mr. Mayor. We have sunk the real estate people today who want to do a legitimate business. They are on the level. Sure, they got some stinkers. So what? We have some stinkers in some other department, Mr. Mayor. What is that? Pardon me, Mr. Mayor. They use it on the radio anyway, on television. I apologize. Let's call them whatever you want to call them, Mr. Mayor. All right, let's call them dogs, period. Call them dogs. That doesn't say that every one of them, no more than one. If we have one dog of a policeman, we've had it right here, sir. And you'll recall, when the angels from City Island came down here, the angels without the wings, said, how in the world are we going to protect City Island? Remember, Mr. Mayor, because we wanted that island over there to put our unfortunate fellows taking an extra drink in there and all that business. So he stood right here with crocodile tears in his eyes. And he said, we angels of City Island, how can we happen that? There's some more booze up there than you can float a battleship to those angels. Hold down to what we're talking about, will you? Because I don't want WNYC involved in a lawsuit. Let them sue me, Mr. Mayor. They couldn't get a plug down him now. Well, Mr. Mayor, I've tried to be very brief. No, you have not. No, you have not. You might be trying, yes, you might be trying. Yes, I try, Mr. Mayor. You haven't done brief. I'm trying, Mr. Mayor, to be brief. But it really hurts. I mean, let's be practical about it. Close it up. See? Come on, let's put your denuncia on. Come on. Mr. Adonisio, please. Mr. Adonisio, madam. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, I did have really a very beautiful analysis of the budget page by page of all of the 1,100 pages, but I know that you're just as tired listening as I am waiting. So therefore, I will try, as Sam said before me, to be just as brief as I possibly can. But there are a few facts that I want to be sure that the radio audience also gets, Mr. Mayor. Now, I'm not going to waste my time in giving you any general commendation. I do admit that you've done the best you could. I've heard that stock question for the last 20 years right at this very table. Where are we going to get the money? Mr. Mayor, why is she getting where she's saying? That's perfectly all right. Tommy Vacuum is on the air, quarter to six. Who's Tommy Vacuum? There's a vacuum now? That's all right. Just the same. Mr. Mayor, I'm very much interested in giving you the facts. I know that there has never been a good budget. Never. Every budget that I can remember, and that goes back for 20 years. You see, I'm a little older than you are, Mr. Mayor. Always, there has been a demand for more and more services. And always on the other side of the table, I have heard the same question. Would you prefer that we curtail salaries or services or both? Now, Mr. Mayor, I've made a careful analysis of the budget. I wish that everybody who is listening, if he or she is listening on the air, I hope WNYC still has some listeners at this hour, that they could have a copy of the two summary analyses that I managed to obtain this morning. I had to do it the hard way by looking at the book and depending upon the newspapers. Now, I noticed that in the summary for each department, and it might be a fine thing if every taxpayer were in possession of the facts and the breakdown that has very, very excellently been prepared for this budget, that the items for personal service in total, as an increase over that of last year. And let me call everyone's attention to the fact that the budget for $49.50 was modified to the extent I believe, as I've been able to ascertain, about $4 million. But on top of that $4 million, the total summary of personal service items for all the departments of the City of New York for the billion and a quarter budget, which is now being proposed, amounts to $9,492,336.02 for personal services. Now, the total for the items other than personal services, and this is really very significant, totals $32,404,094.82. Now, if you break these figures down still farther, you learn that $15 million, almost $16 million, is for debt service for other than personal service. In addition to which, there are various other increases for various services, of which the welfare department, which was paraded here before us, and it was a splendid show, I'd like to make a suggestion about that for future budget hearings, receives, and the public is entitled to know this, other than personal services, that is, other than salaries, an increase of $18,674,190. Now, the health department, no, the hospital department, rather, receives for other than personal services, $178,500. But in going back to the other sheet for personal services, this is what I find, that the hospital department receives $2,641,250.52 for salaries, for increases, I assume, for personal services. Now, I'm not objecting to that. What I'm trying to show is the contrast. We've heard a great deal of talk about additional services, about window washing, and about other services which have been included. All splendid services. And there isn't a taxpayer I know in the city of New York, either within or without the hearing of my voice, who doesn't want all of the services maintained. But I suggest to you, very respectfully, Mr. Mayor, and gentlemen of the board, that your personal service items are too much overbalanced. And there is too little in the other column with respect to other than personal services. Well, why do you base that statement? I base the statement on the figures before me, Mr. Mayor. But no, but what reason? Which I find, I will admit that there are, of course, certain mandatory increases that you can't avoid. I admit also that there are a great many increases that the taxpayers did not expect. And I'm referring to what happened immediately after election. To mine? When many people voted for councilmen, for example, suspecting that they were being paid $5,000 a year. Start. And found they were being paid $7,000. Start with mine. Start with mine, Joe. Well, Mr. Mayor. I told you before election that if I were to be mayor for another four years and take a gamble with my health and go out a sick man from this job without any money, that the least I ought to be was paid for the services that I give for four years. True. I pretty close to committed suicide in this job for the first four years. Joe Goldsmith was right. I had to take time off to restore my health under doctor's orders. Now, it's a big thing to ask of any man that he walks out of here in a stretcher and depend on his family for the balance of his days. The least he ought to get is a salary commensurate with the attention he has to give to a post of this kind. I told that to the people before they went in to vote. And immediately after I was elected, I did precisely what I thought was the just thing. I intend to give all my time to this work, and I intend to be paid at least the salary that a position of this kind calls for based upon the amount of work that has to be done. Now, I have no apologies to you or anyone else for that. My suggestion to you is that if you're ever elected mayor, and if you feel that you're going to give it your concentrated thought and action, and that you're going to live meticulously up to the terms of the charter, that you will not engage in any other enterprise for money while you're in this job, take my advice and protect yourself because you have a duty to yourself too. And there is no apology from me on that. Anyone that takes this job under any other approach is not fair to himself or, on the other hand, he's not fair to the city. Anyone can take this job and laze in it, but that's not fair to the city. But if you take it and work the way you have to do to make all ends meet and see that everything hits properly, believe me, it's a cheap job at $40,000 a year. That's all I have to say on it. Well, thank you, Mr. Mayor. This was not uttered in criticism. What I'm trying to do... I don't want anyone else criticizing until I make my position clear. That's perfectly all right. You're certainly justified in doing so. But, Mr. Mayor, I certainly don't believe that everybody on the Board of Estimates was sick with you when they came in this year. I'll say for the members of the Board of Estimates... Although I believe they're entitled to their salaries. I'm not questioning that at all. I'll say for the members of the Board of Estimates that they worked for the first term without a single raise while they raised everyone around them to meet the increased costs of living. And over and over again it was suggested that such a raise go through here and there from people who are in a desperate situation for money. They, too, are bound by the charter not to engage in any other business. They had to run again. Now, Joe, the Board of Directors of a business that runs into and the expense budget alone, not to talk about the capital budget, of $1,250,000,000, or $1,250,000,000, is a very serious undertaking for a Board of Directors, and that's what this Board of Estimates is. I know how they worked. I know of the hours and hours late at night that they worked with me in the four years to pull this city together from the miserable condition in which we founded in 1946. I know what had to be done. Yet, I took the position and so did other members of the Board. No matter what the hardship was, we hadn't told the voters that we were going to do it and that we wouldn't do that until we first told the voters. And during the last campaign, before the campaign started, we told the voters. And when the people went in to vote on it, they knew what we had planned to do. And I heartily approve of the action that was taken with respect to my colleagues on this Board of Estimates. Are you limiting it just to your colleagues? Now, who do you criticize afterwards? I'm talking now about the men that you said were not sick with me. May I... Some of them are not too well, if you want to know the truth. Some of them were in bad shape at various times during the four years. I don't doubt it. I've known a number of them for a good many years and I know how conscientious and how serious they've been in their duties. Well, three of them were very seriously ill in the hospital during the four years. But, Mr. Mayor... ...and the reason that their duties contributed... We got a little more than that when we found out after the budget was modified because it included another branch of the elected offices that we didn't expect would happen. And I don't recall anything having been said during the campaign. Let me tell you something. I don't want to put this on a personal basis, Mr. Mayor. You're talking about the city council. I am, very directly. I am perfectly satisfied that the raises they received were just in view of their expenses and in view of what they have to do in that city council and what we ask them to do and what they do. If they do a good job, the eight million people of this city will not miss the paltry increase that was given to them to make their job easier. They have families, too. They have children, for the most part, going to school. They need shoes, clothes. They have expenses to meet that they don't ask you for as a taxpayer. They pay them out of their own pocket. Now, if the management of a big job of this kind is going to hinge on a few thousand dollars, then I don't understand business organization. I have no quarrel with the city council whatsoever. If they work as they have worked from the first of January with us, we'll be perfectly satisfied that we'll turn in the same kind of a job or better as we turned in in the first administration and the city won't lose very much if we succeed in doing that. Well, that's probably true, except that the analogy that you bring between the business corporation and the subdivision of government is not quite as accurate as it might appear for the simple reason that the private corporation doesn't have the sources of revenue and tapping the incomes along the same lines that the municipal government or any kind of government can. What I'm thinking particularly of, Mr. Mayor, and you have given me my best argument that I could possibly have made from this side of the table, here we have the situation with respect to the real estate owners of this city, the people who are going to pay the $45 million, as you indicated in your message, since you are providing for no new sources of revenue other than that which you can obtain from real estate. And the real estate people have no possible opportunity of passing that along to their tenants in any shape, manner, or form. You, of course, have been on the front line towards the preservation of present rentals and the protection of the interests of the tenant and seeing that he wasn't evicted and seeing that the rents were kept down. Up in Albany, where I spent the last three months, I heard a great deal of discussion with respect to the law which is now Chapter 250 on the books and which will be in effect on the 1st of May and until June 30th, 1952, that it was supposed to be a landlord's bill. I'm only bringing this in, Mr. Mayor, in order to show you that the very people, you've made a beautiful case for the elective offices, but you're evidently not applying the same kind of logic to the people who are powerless to help raise the funds that you're seeking except in one way and the state law will provide that for them. What was that? And that is that in view of any increase in taxes and Chapter 250, which I hold before me, makes that provision and this board will be a party and will have to share the responsibility for any rent increases that may come to the tenants of the City of New York because if there's any increase in taxes as a result of this budget, the owner of property has no choice, no alternative, except to go to the state rent administrator or the rent commission as it's called and apply for an increase in rents. It's true that he's not going to be able to get it until next year because no increases are provided before the 1st of December at the very earliest, but how else can he meet his obligations? Let me ask you this question. Surely. Was there or was there not any rent increase approved by the rent commission that's about to go out of office under the Sharkey law? Are you thinking of the hotel increases? Oh, no. I'm talking about rent. There were some... Yes, there were some increases that evidently the City Rent Commission felt were justified. What is the basic principle of that? Hardship. Hardship. Hardship. That's right. Do you know what this provides in the way of Hardship? No, wait a minute. I'm talking about our bill. In the toughest day, we never asked a landlord if he could show Hardship to lose money on his property. We always heard the landlord on a basis of Hardship. And the instructions were that if there's an actual case made out, by no means should the landlord be compelled to lose if he can establish a case of Hardship. But, Joe, that's a very polite principle. There's more to it than that. When the landlord came in and said that his services in the house were such and so, that his cost of painting was such and so, that his cost of refurnishing in the case of furnished apartments were such and so, and a hearing showed that he didn't have the number of elevator men that he said he had, he didn't have the doorman, he didn't have the number of janitors that he said he had, he didn't furnish, he didn't paint. Well, quite naturally, a rent commission was not going to take that. I would agree with him. Of course you would. So as far as we were concerned, we made an effort to take the people who, in the business that you represent, who wanted to mult the people on a promise that they were going to do this and that and didn't do it, that they could not get money out of the tenants for services that they didn't give. That was the one thing that we wanted to protect. The first thing we wanted to protect was an unreasonable slew of evictions which were facing us when we passed the Sharkey law. There never was an intention to inflict a hardship on you or your people. I appreciate that, Mr. Mayor, but on the other hand, I also recall the efforts of the administration, the so-called Sharkey Act, which was declared invalid. Of those cases where the owners of property were able to convince the Office of Housing expedited that they were entitled to those increases and which have since been wiped away and which, incidentally, I predict that the law will be declared invalid anyway. I think Governor Dewey's message took notice of some of the things that were going on in that expediter's office that weren't too sweet. I don't think I'd bring it up if I were you. They were isolated cases, Mr. Mayor. All right, but... Certainly a very small percentage of the total number of honest administrators. It's water over the dam now, but I don't think it's a good argument. I don't think it's one you can stand out. No, I think it was a very convenient weapon for the Governor to make use of to justify a law that he didn't have his heart in. I think it was absolutely accurate what he said. Well, I still say it was an isolated case. What I'm getting at is this, Mr. Mayor, that insofar as the owner of property is concerned, and I'm not thinking of the big trustee interests, I'm not thinking of the big apartment house owners. They're even worse off than many of the small apartment house owners, but those who have their life savings in their properties, many of whom live on the premises, who don't even employ a doorman where there is no elevator, and who have to pay more for coal and more for pipes and more for repairs and for painting, such as he can't afford to do from time to time, or anything else. That man in Queens and in Brooklyn and in Richmond and even among the angels of the Bronx at City Island and elsewhere and on both sides of Central Park and everywhere throughout the city have got to find some way of meeting $45 million. May I call your attention to the fact that within a very short time, the building industry, service employees, the unionized group, is coming to grips with the owners of property with respect to the renewal of a contract which expires on the 21st of this month. We're not very far away from it, 10 days. I don't know what's going to happen. I know one thing that will happen, though, and that is if the owners exceed to the demands which have been made or publicized that will be made with respect to the renewal of the contract, many owners of property are going to find it difficult to pay their taxes, much less to meet the increased budget which is required under this proposed setup. Now, again, I want to repeat, and I'm coming back to tell you about it later, Mr. Mayor, and that is if there is any increase in rents in the city of New York for the very same reason that you've taken a bow and properly so to have forestalled many of those evictions, you can also take a bow for having contributed towards an increase in rent because that's the only way in which the owners of property can possibly meet the $45 million. That will be a matter for the state government. I am not so sure, Mr. Mayor, because you are asking for the $45 million, not the state government. And may I point out something else, too? The raising of the rent will be a matter for the state government. Technically, yes. Actually, yes. But actually, you will have been an accessory to the fact, Mr. Mayor, with respect to having made a request for additional funds, the only source of which the owner has, just through rentals. And by the same token, you'll be an accessory to it yourself because you want... In what way? I'd like to know, too. Maybe I get a lawyer. You want police protection, too, don't you? Beg pardon? You want police protection, too, don't you? Of course we do, and I think they're entitled to more police. And you'd like to pay for it, wouldn't you? Sure we would, and I think that there are ways in which it can be saved by cutting down some of the personal service items on the extreme right-hand corner. You can do it. You've got your experts here. I don't have to tell you where. I'm quite sure you can. Joe, I'd like you to tell me where. Beg pardon? I would like to have you tell me where I could cut it down. Give me a little more time, yes. Okay, all right. Come back tomorrow. I'm afraid I can't do it tonight. Okay, all right. But I know that it can be done. Well, when you tell me I can do it, you ought to be able to show where. Now, Mr. Mayor, I don't want you to, I don't want to go away having you get mad at me. And this whole situation reminds me of something that I picked up in Albany. I won't tell you just where. But it says, how to live on $15 a week. And I think that this whole situation is very much analogous to it. And this is supposed to be the budget of an ordinary man, evidently on relief. Whiskey and beer, $8.80. Meat and groceries on credit. Midweek whiskey, two and a half. Movies, 60 cents. Coal borrowed from the neighbor. Life insurance for wife, 50 cents. Hot tips on the horses, 50 cents. Tobacco, 45 cents. Poker game, $1.65. Rent, pay next week. Wife's beer, $1.65, which totaled $16.65. So it concludes with the thought that this means going into debt. And the only solution is to cut out the wife's beer. Well, I'll tell you, Joe, that's precisely what you're asking me to do with the budget. No, on the contrary. On the contrary. What I'm asking you to do is to cut down the personal services and provide for the services. Yeah, I know. Thank you very much. How far did you get away from that when you asked me to do that? I think the chairman of the city committee of the assembly is here. Assemblyman Brooke, may we hear from you, sir? My house, I intend to. Your Honor and members of the Board of Estimate, I appear today as an individual taxpayer and resident of New York City as the assemblyman from the Ninth Assembly District of Manhattan as chairman of the New York City committee in the assembly and as a representative of the New York County Republican Organization, although I assure you, Your Honor, I do not intend to make any partisan presentation. If you appear here as a politician, you'll have to come back at the time that politics will be accepted. Let me address my remarks then on behalf of myself as an individual, as an assemblyman and chairman of New York City committee. As an individual and chairman of the New York City committee, I'll hear you. Thank you, Your Honor. Before presenting the formal remarks that I had intended to make, I feel that there some few comments are necessary in order to set the record straight. I've sat here since quarter after 10 this morning and I've listened patiently and attentively to all the remarks that have been made with one or two possible exceptions when I had to go out to make a phone call. I noticed the parade of department heads that appeared here with their expert witnesses to attempt to justify the numerous requests that they had made of you, Mr. Mayor, in connection with the appropriations they suggested. And incidentally, I missed the port of education. I didn't see them here and I understand that their request was cut by at least $25 million. I hope that has no particular significance, Mr. Mayor. And at the conclusion of each one of these presentations, I also noted the remarks that Your Honor would make, which always seemed to be that, I believe, Commissioner, you've made your case. The only question is where are we going to get the money? And then you would remind both the public and the audience and the audience here that three years ago you requested the state legislature. That kind of hurt you, Mr., didn't it? No, it didn't hurt me and that's why I'm addressing myself to it at the present time, Mr. Mayor. I think it's going to hurt you. Don't worry about me. I'm not going to. I'm just trying to take care of myself and also of the New York State Legislature. I, therefore, sort of rise on a point of high personal privilege because I do feel that some justification for the position taken by the New York Legislature and the actual facts should be presented. It's true that we received a Christmas package some three years ago which included the recommendation that real estate be, the tax on real estate be increased by a one-half percent. It's likewise true that that was not granted at that present time. And let me say this too, Mr. Mayor, as a side remark, these requests that were made of these various departments which you seem to concur in and feel that they made out a case in, all those cuts were made by you, Mr. Mayor. They weren't made by the state legislature. What cuts? This, the cuts in the appropriations that were requested, $19 million for hospitals, $11 million for welfare, $20 million for a police department, $2 million for another department, $8 million for sanitation. Those cuts, this is your budget. You made those cuts in the requested appreciation. Were you here all day? And I think that that ought to be told to the public because this is your budget. Were you here all day? I was here all day with exception of a few minutes while I was outside making a telephone call. What I said and what you heard me say was I did believe that they should have that money but I haven't got it. And you're one of the people that kept it away from me. We'll see whether or not the record is straight on that, Mr. Mayor. How did you vote on it? There was no vote taken on it, Mr. Mayor. And let me remind you of this. And let me ask you this question. Did you or did you not ask the state legislature to pass that resolution amending the Constitution this year? I certainly did. No resolution was presented. No bill was presented by any member of the legislature on either side of the House. I have the record here before me, Your Honor, in the form of the state legislative service. And I defy you to find any bill that asks for that. How many times am I supposed to ask you for it? What's that, Your Honor? How many times am I supposed to ask you for it? Well, you were faced with this record breaking budget here this year. And let me remind you of this. If it weren't passed this year, it means that you can't have it for another three years because two consecutive legislatures must pass on it. Now, so that you don't deliberately mislead the public too much, if it passed the legislature this year, could I use that money this year? Certainly not. But you're in for four more years. You're going to be faced with three more budgets, Mr. Mayor. We'll ask you for it next year if you're up there. And if I'm up there and the Moore Committee of which Mr. Reid, the Deputy Mayor, is an important member, recommends it, I'll vote for it because I believe in presenting it to the people to have them pass upon whether they want it or not. I'll ask you now, if the Moore Committee recommends it next year, will you present it in the Assembly if I ask you to? I will. I will. Use my best efforts to see to it that it's presented to the people for a vote. Yes, Your Honor. I'm asking you now, will you present it if I request you to do so in the Assembly? If the Moore Committee reports it, I will. Good. Let me understand this. Mr. Assemblyman, there was a resolution introduced some time ago on that, wasn't there not, for the increase? Not this past year, no. Not this year, but there has been. I believe two years ago there was a resolution, there was a bill calling for a constitutional amendment. And that was approved practically unanimously by the committee headed by State Comptroller Frank Moore. It was never reported out, it was never reported out by the committee to which it had been referred, Mr. McColler. What committee had it? What committee had it, Mr. Brooks? What's that? What committee had it? I don't, I don't know, but I rather imagine Ways and Means Committee had it, or Rules Committee. Well, all right. Now, that request was made... And I'm not a member of Ways and Means Committee. I'm not going to argue with you, I just want to get the facts. That request was made by the City of New York through the mayor. There was a resolution introduced for that purpose. It was approved practically unanimously by the entire Moore committee with the exception of one. And that died in the Assembly Committee, not yours, you say Ways and Means Committee, I suppose, which corresponds to the Finance Committee of the Senate. Do you know why it died there? I do not, sir, no. Was there a motion made to discharge that committee on that resolution? I don't believe there was a motion made. But my recollection may be hateful. Well, the only way... We have about 6,000 bills each year to be acted upon within three months in your committee with all of that. The only way it could get out is through the action of the Republican Ways and Means Committee because... Well, let's not get partisan, Mr. Rehler. Well, there's nothing partisan about it. It's the fact that the Ways and Means Committee of the Assembly is controlled by the Republicans because... There are more Republican members than there are Democratic members, to be sure. Well, let's face the facts. It wasn't reported out. Now, that bill... The party lines are often crossed. Mr. Assemblyman, I'm not arguing with me and I'm not trying to put you in any spot. I take my word for it. If that bill was reported out at the time that the Moore Committee approved it, we could have voted on that bill this last election. Is that correct? That's correct because two successive legislative could have acted upon it and it could have been presented to the people last fall. So we could have availed ourselves... I don't deny any of those facts, Mr. Contruller. I admit to them. No. We could have availed ourselves of that money if it was approved by the people at the last election. That's correct. That's all. I do want to point out, though, that no effort was made on behalf... on the part of this administration to have that bill reintroduced this year and the Moore Committee of which Mr. Reid, the deputy mayor, is a very important member, didn't see fit to take any action on it, although the matter was before them, I understand, informally, and have agreed to put it over for further consideration next year with, I understand, the approval of the representative of New York City. I just wanted to point that out, Mr. Mayor, to set the record straight because no request was made this year, no action was taken either on that, and we didn't have requests for additional funds from other sources either, Mr. Mayor. And as a matter of fact, the state legislature did provide and open up a new means of revenue for the city administration by passing the legislation permitting the assessed value at its full value, which I believe accounts for some $9 million of additional taxes on real estate, which is contributing an additional $45 million, all told, in this particular budget. Now, uh, I have some suggestions to make, Mr. Mayor. Excuse me, Mr. Controler. I don't want to interrupt you. I just want to call your attention to one thing. You'll find that in these items where you say that the mayor cut the budget, you'll find that we have given more money than what they received last year. In other words, it's not a cut to the budget. It isn't giving the departments exactly what they want, but you can't consider it as a cut. May I ask you, Mr. Controler, whether or not the city's contribution to education hasn't been cut by $8,250,000 under last year's contribution? Well, I'd like very much to have the document here before me. Not if you take all the figures. Not if you take all the figures. I mean, I mean its contribution toward its maintenance and operation, not any contribution toward capital, uh, capital construction. You know how I feel about education, and I have a sneaky suspicion that you feel the same way about it. Well, I voted for the additional bill that provided additional aid last year. The entire responsibility of education is provided for by the Constitution. And that was a state function. Stinkly provided that the state shall provide the support and maintenance of the common schools. But every community throughout the state is doing exactly the same as the city of New York. Isn't that true, Mr. Controller? That doesn't mean that it's right. There's nothing unfair about it. That doesn't mean that it's right. It doesn't mean either that it is wrong, Mr. Controller. Now, let me, uh, speak for a moment on that question. It isn't wrong. It's the law, isn't it? And by providing for it in the fashion that they do is a violation of the law, Mr. Mayor? Is that the, uh... By failing to do it is not compliant with the law. I believe that the state does provide for a system of common school education in conformance with the law. They don't... They don't contribute anything at all for higher education. Now, by providing, do you mean that they are to contribute every penny toward the support of it? That's where we possibly differ. They do provide for a common school system of education in the state. Let's start. Did you read the Constitution? Those are practically the words. Is it a state function to furnish education? It's my, it's my opinion. No, it says the state legislature shall provide for a system of common school education. Oh, no, no. That isn't the language. That is not the language. Well, the Constitution will speak for itself. I believe I'm fairly, fairly accurate in my quotation. ...of the maintenance and support of common school education. Now, you talked about one other bill. I just want to give you a little example. And you're a legislator from New York. And I think you have the interest of the people of the city of New York at heart. It's a small item. That's why I'm here, Mr. It's some time ago. Well, I'll show you what happened. Some time ago, I requested it this year. I spoke to you about it, Mr. Mayor. Some time ago, the state of New York was contributing 50% of the cost of maintaining TB patients in outside hospitals. Up to $5. In other words, if we pay $5, the state pays $2.50. Well, we found that these institutions won't take our patients at $5, and we had to raise it to $7.50. I asked the state of New York through the mayor and with his consent and cooperation, and we introduced a bill last year and this year to have the state at least pay half of the $7.50 or the $8, whatever it was. That never saw the light of day. Well, Mr. Controller, I'd like to be excused because I'm not familiar with that bill, nor am I familiar with the facts of the situation you described. I'm not charging you with that. Don't misunderstand me, but I saw it. You're not charging him with it. Do you see how he's listed here and how he speaks? As chairman of the city committee of the assembly, why shouldn't he know about it? Because I'm certain that that bill was never referred to the committee on the city of New York in the assembly. Well, you're interested in the city of New York, you say? I certainly am. And you're chairman of that committee in the assembly? I am, sir. How is it that you didn't know about this one? Because it was not referred to my committee, never saw the light of day, according to Mr. Controller's statement. Had it, I would have seen it, Mr. Mayor. Well, of course, if someone walked up and had it to you, you'd see it. Now, let me say this while we're talking about city contribution to the various services. Last year, the state legislature did provide additional funds for education of $40 million statewide, of which the city got $17,600,000. Last year, of that $17,600,000, approximately $9 million was put into the school construction fund and was there spent, I believe. The balance of it went into the present type of budget, the $49,50 budget, last year. Now, this year, the entire $17,600,000 goes into this particular expense budget, which is not what the state legislature, and at the same time, the city's contribution is lessened, is reduced by about the difference between $9,000 and $17,600,000. Now, speaking as a legislator, Mr. Mayor, had the legislature known when that increase was granted that any of the localities that would get that additional relief or aid for education would use it solely for the purpose of reducing the contribution they already were making to education. There would have been strings attached to that bill. Well, there were no strings attached to the bill, were there? No, the bill said it could be used either for one or the other, but I am sure that every member who voted for that bill felt that the particular municipality would at least keep up the contribution they were making at that time and not use it for saving their own money. I don't want to discuss politics. We have men here who have been in the legislature before, but we were the fortunate recipients of that extra money because of the fight made in certain other localities, certain other counties that you're very familiar with, and they couldn't very well discriminate against us because we came within that formula. Isn't that correct? That's correct. I was for it also, Mr. Comptroller. Now, in connection with the specific recommendations that I would like to make, I'll try to cut them very short, and I'd be glad to hand up this copy of my remarks so that you'll have it available. I've studied certain of the appropriations for certain of the departments in the budget. It would have been a superhuman task in the 10 days that I've had since the budget was printed to go through any more than that. And I'm sure that this administration and you, Mr. Mayor, want to give to New York City the best administration possible. Do you honestly believe that? Sincerely, I do. Okay. All right. And I want to be helpful. I feel that you want the New York City school system to be the best in the country, and I share your hopes and desires in that respect, but I don't believe that we do have the best in the country. I know that you're cognizant of the fact that certain of our classes are overcrowded, that certain of our school teachers are overtaxed and overworked. The Board of Education has requested 800 additional elementary school teachers for teaching and instructing and grade classes, and the budget provides for but 264. This in the face of the fact that 16,687 additional elementary school teachers, children, will be enrolled this fall. I'm sure you're cognizant of that fact. Did you hear? Now, I don't think that that is going to contribute to making the New York City school system the best in the country. I think it's a backward step rather than a forward step. Did you hear the budget director in answer to the lady who spoke for the Women's City Club Women's City Club that the average class today is 31.7 and they expect it to go down to 31.3 to be reduced? Well, I think that that is not in accord with the 1949 report issued as of October 31, 49 by the Board of Education, which indicates that the average class then, I believe, was 3.1 and in your budget message you provide here for your statement is that the average class will be 3.3 which is an upward jump rather than a downward jump. And Mr. Mayor, how could it possibly go down when, if we, if my arithmetic is correct, 264 teachers for 16,867 or 680, 867 additional pupils is 1 to 60? I have a surprise for you. That's to meet the needs of 5,000 children. I know you're going to remind me that perhaps last year the Board of Education overestimated it. Why, of course. But I'm assured by a member of the Board of Education, by the Public Education Association, the United Parents Association, and other public-spirited and interested citizens and groups that they have taken into consideration in their estimate. And let me say, Mr. Mayor, that you have admitted it in your budget message. Read where I said that. The bottom of page 13 of the formal budget message, a printed copy, you say, during the fall term of 1950, it is estimated that 489,000 pupils will be in the regular grades and classes of the elementary schools. 489,000. If we subtract from that, the Board of Education's report as to the number that were in school as of October 31, 1949, which is 472,133, we have an excess or an addition of 16,867. Will the budget director take that matter up? Take it up. Yes, just tell Mr. Brooks slightly a mistake. I know Mr. Mayor and I know that the very number of the national curve people and dividing it by the 264. and the actual thing that's better. WNYC's microphones are in the Board of Estevan room in City Hall. Commissioner Patterson now is looking up an item in the budget before he replies to the Assemblyman on the floor. WNYC in the budget hearings in City Hall. Now the spring registration of the fall of 1949 was 472,000. 133,000. Is that correct? 472. No. That's right. and the spring of 1950 was estimated at 481. Now these are the Board of Education figures. These are not the budget director's figures. Spring, this is estimated of 1950. 50. They're right now, they're own figures now. We're not... And the fall of 1950 is 489. And the spring of 1951 will still go still further lower. And 31,000, about the lowest in my years of experience as a budget director that we've ever had for the number of teachers in consideration for the number of pupils that you have in the school. You don't follow my statement, how much of the school is. And the number of teachers in consideration for the number of pupils that you have in the school. You don't follow my statement, however, that there will be enrolled in elementary school this fall, 16,133... Well, I asked... But you... But you... 867 more pupils than last year. Mr. Assemblyman, all you're doing is you're taking that 16,000 extra and then you're dividing 262... No, no. No, no. I'm not... But you're... But you're... 867 more pupils than last year. Mr. Assemblyman, all you're doing is you're taking that 16,000 extra and then you're dividing 262... No, no. I'm taking the 489,000 and subtracting the 472,000. And you're just dividing that in. Now take the... the number of pupils that we have on registration and then take the total number of teachers that we have. Don't forget about whether it's going up or how many more teachers we're adding. Don't take that. How many positions have they got in their budget right today? And you'll find out that the ratio is reducing. I thought we'd pass that, Mr. Mayor, and I thought that the director was going to... was going to confirm your suggestion that you're providing for only 5,000 because that's all there will be. But I didn't hear any remarks from him addressed to that point. Well, I think if you... And then, Mr. Mayor, that one particular point is that the assemblyman fails. As you mentioned before about the... the estimated increased registration that Board of Education thought they would have, we provided for those teachers taking their figures. Those positions were not filled and naturally, when we reduce that ratio down to... or that PUPRA registration to what it actually is and then divide the teachers in it, you'll find out that there's a certain number of positions that are now in the Board of Education that are not filled, that will be filled, that we are carrying over to next year's budget, which will keep this ratio down. So you're just taking, well, how many more are we gonna have? Now we'll divide that by 264. That isn't the proper method, Mr. Mayor. That comes to 60, but if it comes to 60, how can... 60 to one, how can it possibly reduce the ratio? That's why, Mr. Assemblyman, you're not... You're not doing it right. If you had 500 or 600 more pupils at more teachers right now than you should have had for the registration and we can apply them to next year, that's what keeps your pupil teacher low down. I still don't feel it's a sufficient answer to your statement or my question, Mr. Mayor, that there are only, I say 16,867, you say 5,000. I take your estimate in your budget and I take the Board of Education's figure for last year with which nobody has quarreled. But you are not taking into account the number of teachers that were allocated for last year that were not used and that are going to be continued. But isn't the number but isn't the statement here, here, May, that with the additional teachers allocated last year the ratio was still 31.7? Isn't that the claim now? That's the statement. And 31.3, Mr. Mayor, in your own opinion, is really overcrowding and too many too, don't you think? Oh, well, of course. You know what we're really doing is telling you very plainly this way. There were 12,000 more pupils that we figured we would have on our registration and we provided teachers for that. They didn't materialize. So for this 16,000 plus that you're talking about, we're really providing 264 more teachers for those 5,000. just for the difference between the 12,000 and your 16,750 that you speak of. Well, I understand that the estimate of the board in providing for the 489 has taken all those factors into consideration. And that's why we get down to this 31.1. And while, while, excuse me. 31.1, Mr. Sunderman. While we're speaking of average. When was the census as low as 31.7 in this city? What did you say? When was the census ever before as low as 31.7? May I answer that with a question, Mr. Mayor? I don't know the answer to that. But I would like to know in how many classes in elementary grades the census at the present time, I mean individual classes, is as low as 31.7. Oh, that's an average. You take 489,000, you divide it by the number of students. My information on that question is that there are 3,300 classes in elementary school at the present time where the census is between 35 and 45 per teacher per classroom. And not 31.7. And that's not a healthy condition. Either for the children or for the administration over the Board of Education or for the teacher. That's so, but compare the number since the mayor's administration I'm glad the budget director admits the truth of that remark. Compare the reduction in those classes that you speak of of 3,200. Why, when the mayor came in we had nearly 5,000 of those kind of classes. I don't care what the last administration had to do in connection with the class size of the schools. I'm concerned with what this administration is going to do about it, with what you're going to do about it now in connection with restoring that cut which amounts to, I believe, well that coupled with another recommendation I have to make which has to do with school supplies and textbooks amount to about $3 million, Mr. Mayor. Do you suggest that we provide teachers that will not be used? I didn't quite get the question. Do you suggest that we provide teachers who will not be used? No, I certainly do not suggest that. Well that is the question, isn't it? That isn't the question in connection with the 16,867 and the 800 teachers requested by the Board. According to the budget director's answer, it is the question. Why, we're talking a little while ago about how are we going to staff these new hospitals that are going to be open? How are we going to staff the 20 new schools that are going to be open in the next school year? With 264 teachers? Explain that. Provided in the budget to staff all these new schools predicated on the enrollment that we estimate and the figures of the Board of Estimates that we are using and we're not reducing those figures even one biota, even in the view of the past experience where we saw that, we knew at least that, and the record show it, that their estimates have been more than what the registration really showed. We've taken their action. Mr. Patterson, this budget provides for 264 new teaching positions in the elementary grades for classroom instruction. Isn't that right? For 5,000 children. Let's forget the 5,000 and the 16,000 for a moment. I would suggest, Mr. Chairman, that you make the presentation without any... I think that's an excellent suggestion, Mr. Mayor. I do urge that that line in the budget that has been cut by some 537 additional new positions, teaching positions for elementary schools, be restored. Even though those teachers are not needed? I can't imagine a situation where they wouldn't be needed, Mr. Mayor. Will you rephrase your request to say that if the teachers are needed, that they be restored? Well, I think the figures obviously disclose that they are needed. There is absolutely a statement by the controller which says that more teachers than have been allowed are not needed. Now, you say you want them in there, and I want to know from you definitely, by the budget director, is it your idea that whether they're needed or not, they should be restored to the budget? Are we still on the air, Mr. Mayor? I don't think so. Are we on the air? Yes, we're on the air. Well, why don't... Why don't I... Let me make this suggestion. Let the parents of the children who go to school, who are in these overcrowded classes, answer that question for you. Well, no, Mr. Brooke. You are making the statement. You're making the recommendation. And I want to have it very clear from you, not from anybody else. Anyone else who comes later on and makes suggestions, they'll make theirs. You're making yours. Now, I'd suggest that you be very clear about your recommendation. I'll answer your question directly. I'll say not unless they're needed in accordance with the standards of the Board of Education, and they are in charge with the administration of education in the City of New York. All right. Now, another item in the school budget that I would like to see restored is the one also referred to by the chairman of the Women's City Club, that item of supplies and textbooks. The request of the Board of Education, and this is only for elementary schools as well, was cut by some $1,700,000 down to $3,440,000, which is, as was pointed out, actually $75,000 less than was provided for in last year's budget, and this also in the face of an increase in the student population of some 16,000 and with the opening of some possible 20 new schools. Will you explain that item to the chairman? I think if you take the total for supplies and equipment, are you only referring to Day Elementary? That's right, $5,166,000. Yeah. Well, there was an amount of money in there. Of course, what we gave, and we moved it down, if you notice, in the junior high schools, we took $200,000 that previously had been in there. So if we were comparing the same figures of this year, while it would be below the $5 million, the figure really would be $3,650,000 against that $5 million. But if you want the whole $5 million. Are those separate line items, Mr. Director? They are separate line items, but in separating them the way we did this year, we took them, we grouped them together, even though we did, as to total amount of money. So that when you take last year of $4 million, we're giving this year about $4 million, too. Is the request for an appropriation by the Board of Education? The Board of Education is more than that. I don't understand. Is what you intend to mean is that in the $5 million, $1,666,000 requested, there is also included an item for junior day, junior high day and academic high? It was in there last year, but then the next year, now it's in junior high. Well, my understanding is that both of those items were substantially increased this year, whereas that for elementary school, elementary day schools was decreased, the request, decreased by over $75,000 from $1949,50. Those are the facts, Mr. Mayor. The budget, of course, speaks for itself, and had I been physically able to carry one up here with me, I'd had the pages before me to be able to turn. I say that this sum of money, which... I'll lend you mine. I don't want you to... Would you like to use this one? No, but I can point to the line items. I'm not certain. I'm not in agreement with the director, but of course, he certainly knows a lot more about this budget than I will ever know. I feel, Mr. Mayor, that these funds which total for the restoration of these items, a little over $3 million can be found, and I'd like to point out just briefly where. And I don't intend to bore you with any long dissertation on them. The recommendations I'm about to make have been before, Your Honor, before. Some of them for as many as two years. There are recommendations that were made at the instance of the... Pursuant to a survey that was requested by you of the Citizens Budget Commission, have been also recommended by some of them, and approved by the Institute of Public Administration, and also recommendations that experience in other large cities have proved to be sound. The first one is a two-man patrol car. Take one of the cops out of the radio patrol cars. I don't mean in every sector. I don't mean in any sector that is dangerous. And I don't mean in the night patrol either. But for two tours of duty, it's possible to take them out and save, in my opinion, an estimated $2 million a year. That plan has been used in other large cities of the country. It's approved by your own survey committee of the Citizens Budget Committee. It's approved by Mr. Smith of the Institute of Public Administration. And I don't see why. Just because perhaps, Chief Inspector Flath will have none of it, that it shouldn't be put into effect and put into effect tomorrow. And I feel that this has been studied also by your Division of Analysis. And my guess is in my wager will be that they have approved, looked upon favorably, its adoption. Mr. Brooks. Mr. Smith. The Division of Analysis has recommended it. The Survey of the Citizens Budget Commission has recommended it. The Police Department has resisted it. And they have resisted it for reasons that seem to me to be strong. I don't think that amateurs, who don't have to stand on the line of the assassin's bullet, know as much about the need of that system as the men in the police department that you mentioned. One is Chief Inspector Flath and the other is Commissioner O'Brien and formerly Commissioner Wallander. Now they point out that there is police property. There is equipment in these cars. There is the obligation of listening and taking messages through the radio in the cars, communicating with the central point in some of the cars, most of them now. They say that for the police... That's a loud speak to radio that both of the officers in the car at the present time here, isn't it? That is true, but they may not be always in the car. One of the purposes is that at a scene, one man remains and the other takes action and the one remaining stands by in case of an emergency. Now I don't know that I should jump to the conclusion that it's good police practice to do away with that system under the conditions that the police have to work when they certified to me that the suggestion is a dangerous one. And I'm satisfied that both Commissioner O'Brien and Chief Flath know what they're talking about as regards the conditions of patrol by automobile better than the Division of Analysis or the Citizens Budget Committee or the Department of the Public Institute either. Or the experience of other large cities throughout the nation, Mr. Mayor? I don't think that... Where there's been no record of any single death of any single patrolman or policeman as a result of reducing the two-man patrol team to one? I don't think that the experience of any other city is of much use in certain sections of our city. In those certain sections, I believe we're referring to the same ones, I don't propose that you reduce the two-man team to the one-man team. And they constitute, according to the Commission's report, some six divisions, I believe, out of 62. And I also don't suggest that we reduce them at night. And still, you can make a saving of $2 million per year. Why don't you give it a try, Mr. Mayor? For your information, Mr. Brooks, the matter is being re-studied because I want to be sure that when that decision is made, whether it's one way or the other, that it's in the best interest of law enforcement in the city. Well, Mr. Mayor, I hope that this re-study will be in before you and this honorable body before June 15th so that it can be affected and reflected in this budget. Because I'm sure that the funds can be saved and put to some good use elsewhere. I'm going to whisper something to you. If it does work, it's still a far cry from the actual needs of the police department. What they need is $20 million worth of personnel based upon the growth of this city since 1932. That's number one. The best we can hope to give them is 1,100 men and 50 sergeants, which was asked for here today. But in my opinion, they justify a much larger allocation of manpower. If it can be done, the men certainly can be used. And there will still be need for many, many more. Well, Mr. Mayor, I hope that you're not going to determine the question of the need for an additional $20 million for the police department by what we heard today from the commissioner and his expert witnesses. Dear sir, when a decision of that kind is made, it will have to be on the basis of a much more formal report. I'm gratified to know that. Now, a further recommendation that I have to make in connection with this same department is one likewise that's been before, Your Honor, and this board for some time. And that is the consideration of substituting in at least half of the 2,100 school crossings in the city. And that half, I'm sure, are not in congested traffic areas, civilians for school crossing patrols. I want to be brief. This, in my opinion, will save at least $650,000 per year. And following a suggestion made by Commissioner Hilliard here earlier in the day in orders that have been issued to his welfare relief department, I'm sure that he can furnish enough selected, well-able-bodied recipients of relief to take care of not only the half of the 2,100, but for that matter, the whole of the 2,100 dollars. That matter is being studied at the present time by our traffic commission to find out the points where civilians would be suitable. You've had this before you, though, Mr. Mayor, for two years. How long is it going to take before action will be had on it? It seems like a perfectly logical suggestion to make. And I hope again that any study of it will come in. I'm sure. In time to make a decision. ...crossing handled by perhaps high school students. I'm sure. ...marked and a traffic, one person driving a car, for that matter, will be just as concerned about stopping and observing the signal of a civilian marked with a white sand bound belt and having the indication of authority, at least, as he will for a patrolman. I'm sure. I don't suggest you put him in any crossings that are heavily tracked. I'm sure that your suggestion is one that we, you know, that we have considered. And you know that the conditions in this city with such a lot of traffic that are very few places that lend themselves to an efficient handling of protection of children on the hands of some amateur. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... You understand that nothing much has been done about that suggestion? No, I understand some progress has been made. Some new pieces of equipment have been purchased, and I believe that the commissioner can be justly proud of those new pieces of equipment. How many pieces have been purchased? I don't know, Mr. Mayor. Tell him. 420. 420 pieces. Of the compactor type? Yes. That is the graph, including the graph invention? We are certainly not going to take up what invention is used. The type of truck has been bought. Now, I'm not a bit interested in who... I just wanted to be certain, Mr. Mayor, we were talking about the same type of truck. I am not a bit interested in any one invention, and I am not going to waste the time of this board in the interest of any one invention, no matter who comes before us. Well, the city was interested enough in the invention to take patents out on it, Mr. Mayor, and if it will result in affecting a saving and increasing the efficiency 70%, I believe your honor should be interested. We have purchased 420 of that type. There are more types than one. Well, I'm very gratified to hear that. Then we should see shortly some reflection of that saving in the budget. In your memorandum, which I understand you have released to the press, you have said that we purchased 400 to 500 of the old type trucks. That is an untruth. And I am not speaking with any type of immunity when I make that statement. Well, then, in that case, again, you have to quarrel with Colonel Regelman because that information came directly from the report. My dear sir, I was just wondering where you got all of your misinformation. He had available to him a great many more sources than I did. I was wondering where you got such a vast fund of misinformation. Now that I know, I can forgive you. I have recited a number of other sources, Mr. Mayor, from which I got information. You didn't come to the right source for this information. If you did, you wouldn't have released that statement to the press. Well, let me say, Mr. Mayor, that the various recommendations that I have in this memorandum, which I shall present, and I assume you have a copy of now, total a saving, at least an eventual saving, if not an immediate one. Certainly the majority of it can be immediate of something over $12 million. You got that from Colonel Regelman, too, didn't you? No, I didn't. I added my own figures up from the recommendations that I included in my memorandum. And I understand and I realize the difficulty that you have to convince any department head that you should cut down. I certainly can see it in the face of what I saw this morning and this afternoon in connection with the presentation of the request by those five departments. Did you disagree with them? I wasn't in a position to agree or disagree. You just felt that you'd like to disagree with them. Well, I wanted more proof than individuals coming merely stating, we want more cops, we want more firemen, we need more firemen, we need more cops. That certainly isn't proof that would impress me. Now, I even suggest perhaps that a politician couldn't possibly convince, or in some instances want to convince, that a department head should cut down his appropriation. But about two weeks ago, your honor stated that you were New York City's city manager. That is precisely true. And this was heartening to me because it eventually decided me in coming here tonight to prevent these few suggestions that I have made. That didn't mean that I had turned Republican. Well, I tell you what, your honor, because a city manager, especially when he happens also to be a mayor, can put through necessary reforms on the basis of merit. Now, I feel, Mr. Mayor, that to adopt certain of these recommendations, to put through certain of these reforms, and I mean now, I don't mean after a second and third and fourth study has been made, is something that you should do as a city manager, and it's your opportunity and your chance to make good on your statement that you are, in fact, a city manager. You mean that as a city manager, I ought to take your word for all of these things and put them in because you say so? Is that what you have in mind? I won't say that because these recommendations have been called to your honor's attention by many more than I. That hasn't... And have been before you. I think they're worthy of consideration and a good many of them worthy of adoption. And your own division of analysis thinks so as well. And that's why I understand you appointed them, and I thought it was a wonderful step when you did. Yeah, but I can tell you this... Now, don't take my word for it. Take the division of analysis, your own creation. My dear sir, the judgment will be mine and the judgment of this board. We'll be glad to get recommendations from the division of analysis, from you, from the citizen's budget. But the final decision will have to be based on merit. I don't mean to imply that you should adopt them merely because I say so. Well, of course you're saying that. Because I present them. I think they're worthy of consideration, Mr. Mayor. I ask you to give them that consideration. They have been considered, and some of them are being considered, and some of them are being tested. And when the tests establish their merit, they'll be adopted. But that's the method by which they will be adopted, not because of the personage who recommends them. That's fine. I merely want it again on behalf of the chairman of the New York City, or as chairman of New York City Committee, and in the various other capacities that I appear, call your attention to them, press their adoption, and I'm sure they will be given consideration. I thank you for this opportunity appearing. Mark. I wanted to read this section of the state constitution, article 11. The legislature shall provide for the maintenance and support of a system of free common schools wherein all the children of this state may be educated. I wanted to give you the exact language of that. I also want to call your attention to this. You know, until only last year, we ran our colleges at a cost of nearly 18 million, was it? We never got anything from the state of New York, although you know that the state was contributing very handsomely to the normal colleges upstate. We did get, I think, 500,000 a year before that. Now we got 3 million, which set us back quite a bit. Now, I'm perfectly happy, and I know every man on this board is, to take suggestions from anybody. It doesn't make any difference who you represent or what you are. If they're worthwhile, we're tickled to adopt them. On this committee where I'm chairman, the mayor appointed this advisory committee as representative of the Citizens Budget Commission, Citizens Union, Board of Trade, Labor, and so forth and so on, which is absolutely nonpartisan, and the men who you know there, the men who you know there will tell you how we're working. But let me give you a little example. And you're a legislator from New York with a great deal of influence in Albany, because you're chairman of a very powerful committee, and you have the necessary votes to put any measure through. We were running a system of child daycare centers where mothers who had to work left their children in those places. Huh? Right down my alley now, you know that. Well, you know what happened. You know what happened. You were contributing something to our support, and then all of a sudden you took it away. We had mothers coming here with tears in their eyes. What? What? What? What? Well, John, the legislator from New York telling us what to incorporate, I think you ought to help a little bit to get the funds so that we can function. We had to take them all over. We increased them. The state of New York isn't paying a dollar for that. I say, Larry, I supported that. I have introduced the bill for the last three years myself. You couldn't get it through? I have introduced the bill. And you couldn't get it through? I tried, but I say it's not been referred to my committee as what you mean. Did you? John, John, did you move to discharge? No. I know it's treason, but did you move to discharge? Well, let's be fair, Larry. Would you move to discharge if the Democrats were in control? I never had the opportunity. Mr. Hallett? We didn't have to move to discharge, John, when I was up there and we had control. You were never up there when we had control. Oh, yes, I was for four years. You fell asleep, Cashmore. No, it was 1922. Do you remember a fellow by the name of Dunnigan who was a majority leader for four years? You remember that? Yes, I remember. You remember that you had a fellow from Brooklyn who was the speaker? Yes. Well, you only could have that if you had control. Were you there, Charlie? I was. Mr. Mayor, could I yield for three minutes to the League of Women Voters representative who's been sitting here all day? Yes, of course. Of course. Such chivalry I do appreciate. I have only a very few points to make. I believe you gentlemen will all remember that for many years the League of Women Voters came before you at budget hearing time on the basis of a principle. We felt that we didn't address ourselves to any one phase of the budget because we believed that the soundest approach to any long-term solution of your budgetary difficulties could only be gotten through a survey of the entire field of the city's finances. I want to congratulate the mayor today in setting into motion the machinery which is going to bring that survey about, that fiscal survey, through the Committee on Survey, Dr. Gulick's Committee. It is our hope that when that's completed, you will find the clues to many of the financial questions that have been plaguing you for many, many years. That's our hope. Today we want to address ourselves to another so-called principle, and that is of asking for a budget that will enable the City Planning Commission to function as set forth in the city charter. We are heartened to see that it was recognized in the preparation of this budget in that there was a budget allowed to strengthen the permanent staff of the Department of City Planning. This we consider is progress because we feel that living in New York City in 1950 is definitely a fight to fit our vast population into the areas of inadequate facilities. We fight for a place in the subway. We fight for a place in our schools. It is difficult to drive and park cars, to find a place in the playgrounds or even in the sun. We even fight for a drink of water. We agree with the mayor when he says the only way to be victors in this battle is through a well-integrated master plan which will provide services for the young and the old and will ensure the fact that forward-looking planning will precede the spending of the citizens' tax dollars. This is really a citizens' battle for decent living in a city where the costs must essentially be high. The least that we can expect, the least return that we can expect is the assurance that in the execution of the budget for the City Planning Commission that that agency will be given the real cooperation of the city government so that the intent of the mayor's words in his budget message shall have no deviation. The League of Women Voters is a citizens' organization. Our membership includes men as well as women and our supporters are acutely aware of the fact that we are the government as well as the governed. It is as your constituents today that we ask and urge for the adoption of the proposed budget for the Department of City Planning. Thank you very much. May I first take the liberty of handing in a short statement for Mr. C. McKim Norton of the Regional Plan Association who had to leave. Mr. Impelletari and members of the board, the mayor and the deputy mayor and the budget director and all who have struggled hard to present this balanced budget deserve the sympathy and the appreciation of the city. Despite the size of this budget, I know that it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to meet all the urgent needs of the city within the limitations of law and the present resources of the city. I want it understood if anything that I say sounds critical, that it is made with full realization of that fact and with a sincere desire to be helpful. Now, if there is any general criticism of the result, it is not in our judgment that this budget has been too liberal, but that it has been in many places penny wise and found foolish. If the thing is worth doing, it is worth doing well. And there are a good many places in this budget where jobs are being done and not done very well simply because the city is not paying enough money to get and hold properly trained people. And it is probable that there are millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money being wasted simply because we are not paying in particular places enough to get the people who are competent to do the work properly or in many other cases the city hires people without proper supervision. Now, the same, it would not be necessary to spend, to have nearly as many people if we had really competent and well-paid people, properly paid people to get the competent people to do all these jobs. Or to put it another way, exactly the same money or even less money would probably result in a better job being done if it were all spent on properly paid positions and proper equipment wisely planned. In other words, this is a matter of management and that is why the studies that are being commenced under Dr. Gulick and the Mayor's Committee on City Management Survey are so very important and why the reclassification study which has been too long delayed, which is about to get underway, to have proper descriptions of jobs and proper salaries allocated to jobs is one of the very most important of these studies. Now, whatever money is spent needs to be spent to do that job right will be money well spent. For there seems no other way in sight to escape from the pattern of underpayment and incompetence that is plaguing the city and keeping it from doing its job as well as it might be done and within its budgetary possibility. Now, just as fundamentally important as that is the start that's being made in this budget to build up the staff of the City Planning Commission. Up till now, the City Planning Commission has been walking a treadmill of making minor changes in zoning maps and considering street grading changes and the like with no staff or budgetary equipment to do the real job of planning the city's future for which the commission was put into the city charter. Now, with this increased budget that has been given to the City Planning Commission, it will be possible to make a real start toward doing the job for which it was created. And we want to express the deepest appreciation for that start that's being made. Same time, we want to point out that it is only a good start, that we will need more before we get through. This will enable them to start to build up their staff with the proper experts to give the proper advice. But there will be more needed and we hope that during the year, as they show that they're ready for it, more money can be found and that the very realistic million-dollar budget that they asked for to help plan the city's vast outlays will be an actuality in next year's budget. We were sorry to see the division that was asked for of community planning cut out because the planning of neighborhoods is something that's very important for all of us in the pleasantness and convenience of living that we all enjoy. And there's a great future for community planning as well as city-wide planning. Under this commission. We hope that that will be started within the next few months. We're very sorry also to see that the special division that was asked for for public information was cut out because it's very necessary to take the public into partnership in this business of city planning and to get public understanding and support. We hope that at least even in this year's budget there will be some slight addition for slides and models and leaflets the sort of thing that is used to such good advantage in Cleveland and Philadelphia and elsewhere in getting the public to take part in this great enterprise of planning the city. Still, we're very grateful for what has been done in making this good start possible and we look forward with great hope to the future. The money that is spent on proper city planning is the best possible sort of economy because... That all depends on what they do with it. What they do with it exactly. It'll be up to them to prove now you've given them their chance. We believe they're going to make good. Allocating money to them doesn't prove a thing. That's right. We'll wait and see what's done with it and then the next step will be taken care of and due course. That's fair enough and we believe they're going to make good under Jerry Finkelstein's leadership. We think that he started off very much in the right track and you're to be commended on that appointment and on the budgetary support that you've started to give them. We agree that it's up to them now to make good and to justify the further implementation of their job. If it is properly implemented it can save scores of millions of dollars that would otherwise might be wasted in the billions of dollars that may be spent in capital improvements over the next few years. Well that's what they say, George but let's wait and see what they come up with and then you pass upon whether they can or not. That's fair enough. Now turning to the operating parts of the budget I'd like to if I may to quote two sentences from your message that accompanied the budget. The care of the sick and needy of our city and the education of our children take priority over all other services. Economies, though necessary shall not affect adversely any vital service to the citizens of this city. That's a gratifying statement Mr. Mayor and we hope it will be taken at face value and I believe it will because if it is taken at face value we're confident that there are going to be some revisions in the parts of this budget that deal with education, hospitals, health, and welfare. We were very much in accord with much that's been said on those subjects and I'd like to pick out just a few of the things in regard to those important departments that we have particularly on our minds. First, as to schools, I would like to bring up again without belaboring it very long the same point that Ms. Bartlett and Mr. Brooke raised in regard to the proper budgetary support of the elementary schools in view of the prospective 17,000 to 20,000 new pupils that are expected. Now, George, are you going to make the mistake they did of talking on a basis of facts that you got somewhere other than the budget director? No, I think not. I think I understand the points that the budget director was making and I still think that there's a good point to be made. Perhaps I'll approach it in a little different way. First, as to equipment, books, and so on, I understand that there has been that the fact that actually less money is being appropriated for books in the elementary schools is partly explained by the fact that if all these teachers that were allotted and were not used were counted into it and still you found out on examination that you had classes that were pretty large, that were as large as they should be, then you come down after that to noticing that as to the new teachers, you're allowing only one teacher for 60 or 70 that's added. So if my first assumption is correct... Say that again. Say that again. One teacher for what? One teacher for 60 or 70 of the added pupils. If my first assumption is correct... Well, it isn't correct. Well, I think it is... I didn't put it quite the same way as the other people did, if you notice. I was assuming... No, you didn't make it 100 to a class. You just made it 60 to a class, George, and your figures are wrong. No, I'm assuming this. The same misapprehension. See, there were 12,000 of those 16 or 17 that should be not considered in our additional teachers that we are recommending. We are really recommending 264 teachers for about 5,000 additional pupils. Well, I was assuming that the teachers that were allowed last year and were not used could well have been used for the number that were actually there now. Now, if I'm wrong on that, well, the rest doesn't follow, of course. Of course. But if I'm right on that assumption, that even if you use them all for the pupils that were there now, you would still have fairly large classes in the elementary school. Well, didn't education agree with your figures that you have in the budget? They asked for many more. Yes. And, Mr. Hallett, we are reducing, the mayor said in the statement I made before, we definitely are reducing the class sizes. There are still some classes that everybody will admit are beyond what they should be. what has been done in the last four or five years to my, in my 40-odd years, the lack of which was never done before. And that is in reducing class sizes. I think you know that. That's right. Still, in view of the perspective pressure and what they thought were the proper standards to observe in the size of classes, the educational authorities of the city gave it as their considered judgment that 800 were needed here in 1964. I'll have to ask you the same question that I asked Mr. Brooke. Yes. Would you suggest allocating money for teachers that would not be needed? No, I would not. Well, that's what you're doing. I have enough confidence, however, in the educational authorities to think that they are not that far off. And they ask for 800 to think the 264 is actually. It isn't a matter of what they asked for or what they didn't ask for. It's a matter of how many children and how many teachers. Yes. Well, that's the standard, isn't it? I would agree, of course, that you shouldn't appoint teachers unless they're really needed. Well, that's what the budget director says, too. It seems to me that there's too much reliance being put on average figures here and not the actual situation. And I just urge that a careful check be made of the actual situation to see if what was requested by the Board of Education is not a little more nearly correct. Be careful check, why they've been working on it for months. Yes. Their budget director is satisfied that he has the right answer. The Board of Estimate has before it now budget that he has checked and checked back and forward, up and down. Well, I won't labor that point anymore. I think it's worthy of further consideration, but I'd like to go on to another point. If you want to get some further facts on it yourself, that's all right, but the budget director is through with it. They've been months and months at this. Okay. Perhaps we can, and we'll try to, of course. We've been working for many years to try to get rid of the teacher substitute system, an iniquitous system under which teachers are employed, sometimes without full qualifications, sometimes for years on end, doing regular teachers' duties without any pension rights, without any tenure, without any security of any kind in their jobs. Now, the Board of Education itself is somewhat aware of the situation. They haven't been as bold as we wanted them to be in asking for the means of getting rid of it, but this year they did ask for some 600 regular teachers in various different departments to take the place of teacher substitutes. Now, not one of those requests was granted, and it seems to us that it's very unfortunate that a start should not be made in that direction. Another thing that has bothered us is the Bureau of Child Guidance, which, of course, is extremely important for the future of our citizens. The salaries there are so low that you're not able to fill the vacancies that are actually provided, and that's one particular place where this policy of being penny-wise and pound-foolish has been followed for years and years, not starting with your administration, Mr. Mayor. If enough salary were offered to get really good people, even if not the full force, a much better job could be done there. Now, I've picked out a few... Yes? Oh, yeah. There's probably the list of people that are seeking those positions, though, aren't there, at the present salary? Well, I'm not sure, but I know that the number of them are still vacant. Now, I've picked out three examples to indicate that we think that there are many spots, and these are only samples, there are many spots in which the 25 million slash in the requests of the Department of Education is certainly not all justified. And I want to urge that point for this reason particularly. The state has given, just last year, extra money for education. Some of us, not only people upstate, but some of us here in New York City, have worked very hard, as you know, to try to get through that new state aid bill. And we did finally succeed in getting it through with a net of some 17 or 18 million per year extra money for education for the New York City school system, and without the strings attached that were going to be attached at the beginning, which would earmark it for school construction. Our story was, and we still think it was the correct story, that all of this money was urgently needed for additional current needs of the school system. Now, in effect, some $8 million of that extra money this year and some $3 million left over from last year, some $11 million altogether of the extra funds are being used simply to replace city money that isn't being given this year. In other words, instead of $11 million more for that going into education, the city is being relieved to the extent of $11 million to meet other parts of its hard-pressed budget. Now, I know the pressure that brings that about, but when the story was that this was actually needed and was needed for education, and education is supposed to be a top priority, how can it be justified simply to use it to replace other funds? And how can we go back to Albany in the future with any hope of success to ask for more state aid for education, say, for school construction, which we have been very much concerned with? Or we'll say, pressing our plea for state aid for daycare centers, which we have been doing year after year. If the result of such things is going to be simply that the city withdraws funds and puts the state funds in place of them, and then that effect is not the increase in those services. I urge that very seriously on your attention because it's not only a matter of cutting down what we think is properly needed in the school system for its current expenses, but it's going to make it harder for us in the future to get the state aid that we think is needed and justified. Now, I would like to point out, however, that there's one point in the education budget where we would recommend a cut for transfer, however, to other parts of the education system, so it wouldn't be a net cut in the education department. The Bureau of Attendance is doing largely an unenlightened police-type job on the truancy problem. And I say police-type job with apologies to the police because I think the police do a better job on this sort of thing than is being done by and large in that Bureau. Actually, that Bureau which comes in contact with the problem children of the future, the incipient delinquents and criminals and mental cases, could be our first line of defense against these very expensive as well as devastating problems of the community. And yet, in the face of all this, the personnel of that Bureau is steadfastly resisting any and all attempts to give it the sort of trained leadership that it needs. This year again, as in past years, using a perfectly incredible amount of political influence, the few people within that department who now have a monopoly by law of appointments to the top positions in the Bureau, defeated again a bill which was backed by the Board of Education and the State Education Department and most of the newspapers and civic and educational forces, which would have opened those very important top leadership positions in the Bureau to open competitive examination. Who are they, George? Take pardon? Who are the people you're talking about? I'm talking about the officers in the Bureau of Attendance who have used their influence with leaders of both parties. Who are they? Who are these officers? Beg your pardon? Who are they? Who are the leaders? Yes. Who are the men in the department? Oh. Well, there are a dozen people in the department in, I don't know their names. Are they civil service people? They are people, yes, I think they're civil service. They are people, however, who under present law have a monopoly of the availability to the top three positions. They have to be filled by promotion at the present time, even though there were only a dozen people who wanted to take these examinations. And that's no kind of a selection to get the best people and the best leadership for this very important sort of position for the whole city of New York. Now, these people, it develops, have very close political tie-ups with Mr. Curran and Mr. Cruz and with some of the Democratic and other Republican leaders, too. How about Mr. Curran? How about Mr. Brooks? Beg your pardon? How about Mr. Brooks? Well, Mr. Brooks wasn't in that position. I think we could have gotten his help on this one because he's the associate of Senator Mitchell who was helping us with it. Senator Mitchell was trying to sponsor the bill and tried to get it through, genuinely. But these Republican leaders that I have mentioned did succeed in killing the bill in spite of the excellent case that could be made for it and the grave need for it. And as long as the people within the Bureau persist in taking that attitude, we would like to see their budget considerably cut and their functions transferred to other parts of the school system where they wouldn't be under that sort of artificial legal restraint that they are at the present time. Perhaps the Bureau of Child Guidance could take over some of those functions if it were properly equipped with more budget. Now, as to the other departments that I referred to, I'll try not to spend very much time on any one of them. Well, hit them high, will you, George? The hour's getting late and Miss Barnes has to be heard. Take a pardon? Just hit the high spots. Yes, I'll try. Miss Barnes has to be heard and a few others. I want to say a word about libraries because libraries are a very important part of the educational system. They've been very close to our hearts as I think they have been to yours for many years. One of the really fortunate events of this year's legislative session was that we got some substantial state aid for the first time for libraries. And we may hope within the next year to get something like $1,200,000 for the city in state aid. Now that, however, gratifying as it is, is a good deal short of what is needed for proper salaries and proper extension of service and proper books for the library system. I could elaborate all of those statements. We know that. But you know that, yes. We haven't got the money. And very little is provided in addition within this budget for libraries. I would like to point out that if you can find for books, particularly for books, a fair-sized increase in the budget, that will in turn bring you more state money next year because the state aid formula is based on the amount that the city spends for books. So that if you can come somewhere nearer to making the book allowance adequate, and it's less than half of the standard amount at the present time, that will in turn result in more state aid, which can be used for salaries as well as for books in the future. I'd like to urge also that you give consideration to better coverage in all the boroughs except Manhattan in the way of mobile units or new branches, because the state aid formula has severe penalties in state aid if the coverage is not considered adequate. It's only really adequate in the borough of Manhattan. What was said on hospitals earlier we would agree with, and I just add this point there, that a special committee on health problems that we have just established is particularly concerned about the mental health problems in the hospitals. We don't think that they are being adequately taken care of, as I presume you would agree. Although something like 40% of the people that are admitted to Bellevue are mental cases, only about 10% of the beds provided for in the New York Bellevue Center are for mental cases. The top psychiatrist in Bellevue is paid $6,900, whereas it's $10,000 at the Board of Higher Education, and a good psychiatrist in private practice can earn several times that much. It's another case of not paying enough money to get the really proper kind of service there. And, of course, the conditions in the overcrowded mental wards at Bellevue are very distressing and depressing on the patients themselves, as I think you know. I'd just like to urge special attention to that aspect of it. In health, we would agree with what was said by Ms. Carr about the impossibility of getting proper nursing service at the $2,400 figure and that sort of thing. And health officers' jobs are not all filled because of the inadequate salary. In welfare, there's the same sort of situation in many places. And we would like to bear down particularly on one thing that we've given a lot of attention to, and that's daycare centers. I would like to say that we have been among those who have been trying very hard to get the state to resume its aid, which it gave in the wartimes, for daycare centers, so far unsuccessfully. And we're highly gratified that the city has made it possible to continue the service, this very vital service, without diminution and is planning in this budget for eight new centers in connection with these new developments. We would like to urge, however, that you do allow this item of, I think it was $240,000, was it, for additional salaries for the people who work in these centers, because they are now very, very much substandard. And it's only fair to bring them up to somewhere nearer the level of other teachers and people with similar responsibilities. We're very much interested in the smoke control bureau, as you know. We had something to do with getting that on the statute books. And we can't help expressing disappointment that more progress hasn't been made within the past year. We know that some things have been going on behind the scenes. But we think it oughtn't to have taken more than about six months to get the bureau in real working order. We hope that now there will be a permanent director found in the immediate future and that he will be given adequate staff and equipment, budgetary support to go ahead with. I don't know. We're looking into that just to see what the setup is like. There have been several serious criticisms made, very serious criticisms made of the form, the method, and the policy. We're studying that at the present time. We're examining those criticisms. Yes, that's perfectly proper. We hope, however, that they can be resolved in the very near future. We believe that the budgetary support allowed for this very important bureau ought to be not less than $300,000 instead of the $143,000 that was actually allowed or the $212,000, I think it was, that was asked for by the department. While we're on the Department of Housing and Buildings, one of the crying needs of the city is, of course, adequate pay for the city's regular building inspectors. And I needn't develop that line further. Also, we agree most heartily with what was said about the need of more probation officers and better paid probation officers, particularly in the magistrates' courts and the domestic relations courts. That's one place where spending a comparatively small amount of additional money may save a great deal in the costs of crime in the future, costs that are human as well as financial. Now, all of these things cost money, and you may rightly ask, where does it come from? That's right. Yes. We can't give you a full answer, but we have some thoughts on the subject because we haven't been dodging it. Some of the money might be gotten with the help of such things as you suggested, which will require constitutional amendments. The citizen union went along with you in your request for a half a percent increase in the amount that could be raised by taxation of real estate. We point out that that is justified not only by a realistic appraisal of the actual situation, but by the fact that real estate taxes here, burdensome as they often seem to the owners, are less than they are in most other parts of the state and in most other parts of the country in large cities. And the reason for that is, of course, that here in New York City we have only one tax limit and one debt limit, whereas every other part of the state is under a double tax limit at least, a double tax debt limit, and some of them under three or four of those separately. So that we are limited in what can be done here, and the taxpayers are in comparison well off. So that we think you're justified in that, and we hope as long as the need continues that the request will be renewed. That won't help this year's budget. And certain other things that could be suggested by way of legislation and constitutional amendment, which we would also be ready to go along with, it won't help this year's budget. Ultimately, a great deal of this money that's needed can be found, we believe, through improvements in efficiency and avoidance of waste and overlapping. And some of that, perhaps your Bureau of Analysis, which has been a very useful bureau, may be able to point out now even more than it has. We'll have to wait for much of that for the conclusion of the studies that are being made under your committee on the City Management Survey, which we think is one of the most constructive things that's been done in many years here in the city. Now, what should we do now then beyond what can be found immediately by your own Bureau of Analysis and your own researches? If it's necessary in order to meet such crucial needs as have been brought out today, we would say you would be justified in using some of the taxing powers that have been given to the city but have never been used. These are not agreeable taxes. We should come to them only reluctantly and if we have to. But it would be much better to have any of these taxes that you're allowed to levy and are not levying, than to have inadequate schools and hospitals and health service and welfare and all the other things that have been pointed out as very urgently needed. We are willing to go along with you on that and if you find that it's necessary to invoke new taxes temporarily, we are willing to support them. Thank you. Please, Ms. Barnes. You're listening to the budget hearings in the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall. The Mayor of the City of New York is presiding, WNYC. I'm sorry too, I hadn't understood about the list. If I had, I would have turned in the request earlier. But I've had a chance to hear a great many people. One thing I want to speak about that this gentleman touched upon in the matter of the request for more teachers, I think that a great many of you perhaps did not understand that part of that request was to put in regular teachers instead of the many, many, many substitute teachers there are. Of course, I'm not teaching now, but up to the time that I stopped teaching in Fort Richmond High School, there were in the commercial department, or there was in the commercial department, a full staff of substitute teachers. There was not one teacher the last year that I was teaching there in Fort Richmond High School, which is one of the best high schools in the city of New York, has high rating in all city work. Not one teacher in that commercial department could sit to take charge of a regent's examination. Their regent's examinations had to be staffed by people from other departments because the state will not allow a substitute teacher to take charge of a regent's examination. That meant more work for the rest of the staff. That's one point I think you should understand in the matter of the number of teachers. Also, in this matter of volunteer activities of teachers after school, the after school volunteer activities you may not realize mean in a great many cases that a teacher who is a mother of children in school has to hire to take her place at home because the children come home before she does. If she takes charge of volunteer activities after school, she has to hire a babysitter for those extra hours. You don't realize that, but it means money. And in a good many families it means a good deal. I know of some cases where the teacher mother has charge of everything at home excepting at that time. And it means quite a lot because you can't hire somebody at an unknown time during the week, perhaps someone for two hours and a half on Thursday afternoons and Tuesday afternoons. They don't like to come that way. They like to have a regular schedule for babysitting. Now that, they call it babysitting even though the child is in the elementary school. Something else about the elementary school classes. I don't know whether you realize it or not, but a good many teachers in elementary school have half-day classes. They teach one class in the morning and one in the afternoon. That means if there are 31 children in each of those classes, it means that teacher has to have charge of 62 names and 62 records. You don't always think of that. You think of average classes. I have had classes up to 50, or roomfuls, up to 56 children of several grades for all day long. I have also taught morning school classes and afternoon classes, separate classes. That sort of thing happens. Those things are not told you when they send these schedules in. Now, you say we're hemmed in by... In today's proceedings in the Board of Estimates, which was devoted to the hearings on the budget for the fiscal year of 1950-51, and presented at by the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and the complete Board of Estimates, and the Cabinet of the Mayor, we have heard the various representations of the organizations that appeared here today. Your city station, because of the fortunate facility of its radio facilities, was able to have you, the people of the City of New York, here in City Hall as well, to participate in this historical broadcast of budget hearings. Now, because it is important to you to understand why your city government functions and how, we would like to hear from you. We'd like to get a reading from the radio audience of the public interest in occasions of this kind. Because after all, every act that takes place in this building, whether it's in the Board of Estimates or the City Council, affects you, the people of the City of New York. And we would like to know how deeply interested you are in your own welfare, through your response by mail, of your appreciation of your ability to participate in these broadcasts. May we inform you that tomorrow we will carry the sessions, and Friday as well. And we will keep you thoroughly informed on this historical occasion, when the complete hearings of the Board of Estimates, rather, will be harvested and brought to you by means of your radio station. So do drop us a card if you haven't time for a letter, and let us know how interested you are as citizens in your own good and welfare, through the action of your city government, as it is concerned in that welfare. And now may we join with the Masterwork Hour, the classic musical program of your city station, which is now in progress.