Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses America and the mind of Europe. Now to open today's program, we present Alan Simpson, historian of the University of Chicago. What stake has America in the rearmament of Western Europe? How should we try to defend Western Europe? Is Western Europe ready to defend itself? Every American concerned about our foreign policy today has to answer these questions. The administration has already indicated its answer. It is trying to rearm Western Europe within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty. It is awaiting General Eisenhower's report on the disposition and needs of these countries, and it is ready to stiffen their resistance with American leadership in men, money and armament. It speaks of building a defensive barrier from the Baltic to the Mediterranean. But if this policy commands support in some quarters, it is mistrusted in others. Mr. Hoover appears to pin his faith in the defense of this hemisphere. Minister Taft would defend Western Europe by the threat of retaliation with atomic weapons, rather than by what he considers to be an expensive and provocative investment in a European land army. Many Americans are doubtful if Western Europe is ready to defend itself. And even if it were, they do not see how any imaginable army could stem a Russian advance. Today, the round table proposes to discuss some of these problems. Mr. Bertrand de Juvenel, you are a Frenchman, a political philosopher. You have written a book on power. You have been a frequent visitor to this country. We are very much interested in the views of your countrymen in this situation. Do you recommend the rearmament of Western Europe? And if so, just exactly what do you mean by it? I think Western Europe should be defended. I think it can be defended. And I think after an interim period, it can defend itself. It should be defended because no country can prosper economically, it can live in social harmony, and can flower intellectually under such a threat and in such an atmosphere of fear, as Western Europe experiences today. It must be understood that Russian troops are 150 miles from our frontier, that is the distance between Washington and Philadelphia, and that it is felt by Europeans that whatever they try to build up can be pulled down in a moment by Russian occupation. This atmosphere is one which is untenable. It must be remedied by the Organization of European Defense, and the feeling it has bred can be overcome by the Organization of this Defense. Would you give us some indication up to what scale you would expect this armament to be built, and just what kind of contribution you feel that America ought to make to it? Well, we always think of preparation for defense as preparations going on behind a certain screen. This screen of forces the European nations cannot put up at this moment, and I say at this moment. So, until they can put it up of themselves, we desire very strongly that American divisions should go to the building up of this screen together with such divisions as the European nations can muster, and, as I believe, together with a volunteer legion which could be set up. Hans Morgenthau, you are a political scientist at the University of Chicago. You hold strong views on American foreign policy, which have received a wide circulation in this country. What is your reaction to Mr. Juvenel's remarks? Do you agree with him on the desirability of trying to rearm Western Europe? Simpson, if you put the question this way, I do not agree with Mr. Juvenel. Let me, however, make two points perfectly clear. The first point is that the United States have a vital interest in the independence of the nations of Western Europe, as the United States always has said. The second point is that the United States must contribute to the defence of Western Europe. Or, to put it more bluntly, that the United States must defend Western Europe. The only question is, how can the United States best defend Western Europe? In trying to answer this question, it seems to me quite absurd to think that in the time available to us, which is very short, we should be able to erect a screen capable of stemming the tide of 200 divisions, which are at the disposal of the Soviet Union. Europe, in my opinion, has in the past been defended by the United States, by the strength of the United States, here in this country. And if Europe can be defended at all, it will in the future be defended by the strength which the United States has in this country, and not elsewhere. I think it would be a fatal mistake for the United States, from the point of view of its own defence, as well as from the point of view of the defence of Western Europe, to disperse its forces, to send a division here, to send another division there, to send some arms to this spot, to send some other bunch of arms to another spot, and not to concentrate its power where it is needed, in order to defend itself and the Western world against the imperialism of the Soviet Union. Well, if I understand you correctly, Morgenthau, although you're prepared to do something about European rearmament, you're sceptical about our capacity to build up strength there. Now, if Morgenthau feels this scepticism, juvenile, and if it's widely shared in this country, can you really ask Frenchmen to rearmament? Is there really a will to fight there? What will be accomplished by rearmament? Well, Mr. Simpson, you must realise that for us, the war is not as it is for you, and as it was for us in the past, the young men going to war. It is war coming into our homes. You know what the treatment was of women, and what the invasion of certain regions by the Russians, and you know about the deportation of children. That is what really strikes terror into our hearts. Now, you would conclude from this that the gate of the danger, the gate of the... And surely, that is true, with one qualification, that there must seem to be a chance of defending oneself. I have received very striking letters, one of whom... one of which in particular I want to quote. One of my readers protested to me against my urging in the French press, our armament and our building up our defences, by saying, I would... I was a soldier in the First World War, I was a soldier in the Second World War, I gave my sons also, but now I am hesitant, because I do not see a chance of defence. It seems to me that before the enormous power of the Soviets, what is it that we can do at the stage we are in? And it is in order to reassure such people who see no chance, that the visible presence of American troops is so desirable. This visible presence will produce increasing returns, as economists say. The more you put in, the more you will find that there is confidence in the ability to defend oneself. And this confidence is what must be called for. I would not at all disagree with Mr. de Juvenel on this point. I am strongly in favour of having a few American divisions in Europe, not for the purpose of erecting a screen, and not under the illusion that those few divisions can in any way defend Western Europe should war come, but rather for the purpose of giving an emphatic and unmistakable warning to the Soviet Union, that if they attack Western Europe, they must, by that very fact, attack the United States too. So I don't see any other reason for having an American division in Europe, but to give a token of our determination that we shall go to war with the Soviet Union with all our strength, if Western Europe should be attacked. I can see the attraction of this from your point of view, Morgensauer, but I wonder just exactly how attractive it is to a Frenchman. Do you think he's happy at the idea of being a party to this token demonstration? I'm sure they are not happy about it, but the French are a rational and logical people, and I think no number of divisions which we consent to Europe will deceive them about the immense danger of the situation. After all, General Eisenhower has now, at this moment, ten divisions under his command. Three Americans, three English, two French, and two others composed of a number of regiments of other countries. In fall, he is supposed to have twenty divisions under his command. And let me suppose he had forty divisions under his command. What would that mean as over against the tremendous accumulated force of the Russian land armies? And I think no European, no Frenchman, no Western German can be fooled about this situation. We may fool ourselves, and I think we try our best to fool ourselves about this. And we have tried to fool ourselves in the past about the responsibility which goes with our dominant position in the world. But I don't think you can fool the Europeans about that. It could be argued, and certainly would be argued by the administration, that the kind of force they contemplate would be an added deterrent to those deterrents which already operate against Russia. Do you think, Juvenel, that it would have this effect? Or do you think perhaps, as Mr. Taft has argued, that so far from operating as a deterrent, it would operate as a provocative? Well, I'm afraid that there is no doubt that it has some provocative effect. We know that our arms will never be used for anything but defence. The question is, how can the Russians be assured of it? They misunderstand us so greatly. It has some provocative effect, but on the other hand, it has also some defensive effect. And surely, the provocative effect is mostly in the period of building up, and once it's built, the defensive effect is prevalent. Now, Professor Morgenthau was good enough to grant the possibility of General Eisenhower's having in Europe an army of 40 divisions. I would be very happy if that was so, because fighting 40 divisions is no small job for the Russian army. And this would certainly give time for more help to arrive. And this would then give a chance for the defence of Western Europe as opposed to its liberation. You know, we just don't like the prospect of being overrun by the Russians and living under their rule. So, I think we would already be in a very good position in that case. There's one question I would like to ask you about morale, Juvenel. We all know that there are circumstances in which a people will fight and, if necessary, die rather than submit to slavery. How strong is this feeling, would you say, in France? We know the horrible dilemma that a country like France is in, but ultimately it will have to choose between resistance or surrender. How many would choose to resist regardless of cost? Well, that is a question which we cannot, I feel, go into here very well, because you would have to discuss what makes for moral unity in a nation. What creates this will to defend oneself to the last man, which, of which we can quote a few, but not so very many instances in history. There is a profound love for one's ways of life, a feeling that they are very much the best. That one would rather see one's children dead than see them living under any other knowledge. Now, you must realize that there has been, in the last 25 years, a series of revolutions, political and social, going on in Europe, and which have very much shaken up these standards, and we must have a period of consolidation. The period of economic consolidation you gave us by the Marshall Plan, which was a great boon to Europe, must be followed now by a period of political consolidation, out of which a real strength of Europe will emerge. This takes time, and it is this interim period that we are so eager to have the American help. Let me make myself quite clear. I think it would be utterly scandalous for Western Europe to be asked, to ask the American people to defend her over a long period of time. It is their business to defend themselves. And you hope that behind this American screen you could build up unity and strength. Now, I would like to turn for a moment from France to Germany. We all know the importance that the administration has attached to the contribution that Germany, with her industrial resources, her men, her fighting skill, can make to the rearmament of Western Europe. But I would like to know whether you two gentlemen envisage the rearmament of Western Germany, within such measures as you propose to take for the rearmament of Western Europe. Are you for it or against it? Morgenthau? Under the plan which the administration seems to pursue, if it has any plan, I am emphatically against the rearmament of Germany. I could well imagine a situation in which I would be strongly in favour of the rearmament of Western Germany. Let me suppose we had a period of ten years in which we could quietly and deliberately rearm ourselves and rearm Western Europe and Western Germany. I could well imagine within the framework of such a step-by-step rearmament of the Western world as a final step to the rearmament of Western Germany. For then, the disastrous political consequences which necessarily will ensue from the isolated rearmament of Western Germany would then be avoided. For a Western Germany, as it stands now, without military counterweight in Western Europe and in the United States, a rearm Western Germany will of necessity have a foreign policy of its own supported by its army. And could possibly, I suppose, be induced to make a deal with Russia by Russia? There are two possibilities. First of all, let me say first, the Germans are not going to fight for democracy as an obstruction. They are going to fight for their own national interests. And the very minimum of what every patriotic German, east and west of the Iron Curtain, wants, is the reunification of Germany. And you can more easily get this unity by a deal with the East? Sure. There is only the Soviet Union which can give that. And furthermore, the other objective which most Germans have, is the rectification of the Eastern Frontiers. And only the Russians can give that. After all, the Russians have made for 200 years one deal after the other with, first with Russia and then with Germany, at the expense of Poland. Why not have another division of Poland? This is quite possible. If the Russians can get in return either the neutrality of Germany, or even better, the active support of Germany. And if the deal doesn't get through, the other possibility always remains, which I think is very strong. That the Russians will go to war, rather than see Western Germany rearm, and threatening the status quo in Central and Eastern Europe. Do you share these views, to Juvenile, about the undesirability of rearming Western Germany? Well, Mr. Simpson, I have been in my country advocating, very unpopularly, I must say, I have been advocating the rearmament of Western Germany. As saying that these Germans were necessary to a defense of Europe, and that they should be given, granted, equal rights with other Europeans and equal duties. However, I have come to have my doubts about this policy, in recent months, on account of two facts. One, that the Western Germans seem to be unwilling to rearm, and we shouldn't then press arms upon them, that doesn't seem rational. And the other thing is that the Russians have given us a very strongly worded warning that they would regard the rearmament of Western Germany as, as it says, as Bella. Now, I don't think you should ever submit to threats when you're trying to do something which is morally necessary. But the rearmament of Western Germany doesn't come under moral necessity, it comes under expediency. We want to rearm Western Germany in order to give more security to Western Europe. If this is going to precipitate a negation against Western Europe, well, let's leave it like that. I don't see how I would rally myself to the idea that this is not a matter to be pressed for the moment. Now, may I remind you that I suggested that the American divisions to provide the screen in Western Europe should be rounded out by the creation of a European legion of volunteers, in which Germans and French and other nationalities could come in at their will. I am convinced that one, such a legion would add very much to the defence of Western Europe, and two, that it would give proof to the American opinion that there are a great number of Europeans which are ardent and eager for this defence and can display more eagerness than can their governments, which are obliged to represent all shapes of the defence. Well, we've been exploring the different ways in which America can defend Western Europe. We've seen how complicated and in many ways how depressing this situation is. Possibly in our depression we sometimes might say to ourselves, Western Europe is a bad risk, a poor investment. It's in a helpless condition and will remain in a helpless condition. This mood might drive us back onto isolationism. Morgenthau, I would like to ask you, do you think America can defend Western Europe, and if so, how? Uh, Simpson, who has defended Western Europe in the past? Why didn't the Russian armies march to the Pyrenees or as far as they wanted to at any time since 1945? Well, what do you think is the deterrent? One thing and one thing only. The power of the United States and the assurance given to the Russians that this power will be used against them if they should march through Western Europe. And I'm convinced that nothing else will deter the Russians in the future. It is a psychology which is very reminiscent of the marginal line psychology of the French at the beginning and before the Second World War, to think that you can somehow escape the liabilities of being the other great world power, either by sending billions to Europe, to the Marshall Clouds, or by some kind of super weapon, some armor-piercing equipment which will make land armies obsolete, or by rearming the Western Germans, or by rearming Western Europe. Isn't it a strange thing that when we look across the Iron Curtain, we never speak of the power of Poland, or of Romania, or of Bulgaria, as we speak of the potential of France, or Belgium, or Luxembourg. We speak of the power of the Soviet Union, because this is the great power center which threatens us. And the only deterrent on this side of the Iron Curtain is the other great power center in the United States. After all, don't forget that today the most powerful army in Western Europe is the army of Switzerland. How contestant is it to think that by sending some arms to Western Europe, or by rearming a few German or French or Belgian divisions, that you can, to any decisive extent, change the existing distribution of power between the Soviet Union and the West, insofar as land armies are concerned. There's one point at which I don't quite follow you, Morgan Tower. I agree with you completely about the necessity of accepting our responsibilities for world leadership, and maximizing this power that we have that acts as a deterrent upon Russian aggression. Why can't we, under the cover of the atomic advantages which we have at the moment, but which will not last, why can't we add to the deterrent we already have, the deterrent that would be supplied by a force of reasonable proportions in Western Europe? This is a question of priorities. As I tried to point out before, if we had ten years for doing that, I would perfectly agree with you. But unfortunately we have wasted a very precious and irrecoverable years in doing nothing, in economizing in defense, in lulling ourselves to sleep, or at least into a kind of somnambulism. And now we have very few years, if any years, left, for our atomic advantage is rapidly wiser from America. When the Russians will have a stockpile of atomic bombs too, and we will have nothing to bargain with. And we will then be confronted with the real threat of a third world war. In such a situation, you cannot disperse your strength. You have to concentrate it. If this advantage is withering away, this would point to an argument, Morgenthau, which I know you have often used at the time to negotiate, is not in the future, but now. I am going to ask you gentlemen to summarize your positions, and I hope in summarizing yours, Morgenthau, you will find an opportunity to make this point. Mr. Juvenil, what are your last thoughts on this subject? I think that Professor Morgenthau's policy, if I may say so, would throw continuously the whole burden of stopping Russian imperialism on the United States. Now, my point is a very simple one. Just like Adam's rib was taken out of him by God and created another being which was to be his companion, just so it seems to me that American help to Europe is going to create a companion for the United States, which is going to share the burden and lessen it in the future. That is all. This is a very charming metaphor. I wish I could hear it in French, but I am not convinced at all. I personally think that the only cause the United States can take at this very serious moment in its history is to rearm itself with all its strength, to leave a few divisions in Europe as a token of its will to resist, and to be ready to negotiate a reasonable and fair settlement as long as there is still time left. For my own part, I believe that this country ought to take the lead in rearming Western Europe. I believe that there are many Europeans who would sooner fight than be Russified, and that this will to fight can be stiffened by the right leadership from this country. I believe that no useful purpose is served by excessive fear of wounding Russian susceptibilities. It seems to me that there is a point to which Western European armaments can be increased without provoking Russia to run the risks of a third world war. At the same time, I fully share Mr. Morgenthau's conviction that nothing is gained, indeed that much is being lost by a refusal to negotiate. If I might explain my position in terms of the old maxim, seek peace and prepare for war, I would say that my preparations for war would include Western European rearmament, and my search for peace, a readiness to negotiate now. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on America and the Mind of Europe, were Bertrand de Juvenal, distinguished French journalist, political philosopher, and author of the recent book Power, and Hans J. Morgenthau, political scientist, and Alan Simpson, historian, both at the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion of America and the Mind of Europe contains the full text of the program and valuable supplementary materials on the rearmament of Western Europe. Individual copies are ten cents in coin. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of this program. Or you may subscribe to the Roundtable pamphlet for a full year for only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and receive the Roundtable pamphlets for the next 52 weeks. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Well, next week the Roundtable discusses War and the Christian Church. Be sure to hear Bishop Angus Dunn, Robert L. Calhoun, and Bernard M. Loomer in this important Roundtable program. May we invite you to join the Roundtable home study courses in human rights and world politics. These two courses are open to all, and you may begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, the 24-volume set of the Encyclopedia Britannica is awarded to the student in each course most successfully completing the course that month. Today's program originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of the National Broadcasting Company. Hear a timely discussion on the American Forum tonight on NBC. Amelia