Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how can the American heritage survive? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around two questions. What is the American heritage, and what do we have to do to keep it alive and healthy? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are John T. Eastlick, Librarian of the Denver Public Library, Cyril Houle, Dean of the University College at the University of Chicago, Mrs. Grace Stevenson, Director of the American Heritage Project of the American Library Association, and E.T. McSwain, Dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University. Now as you know, Mrs. Stevenson and gentlemen, we are presenting this discussion in cooperation with the American Library Association, and more particularly, this American Heritage Project, with which you are very directly concerned, Mrs. Stevenson. What is this project in a sentence or two? The project was made possible by a grant from the Fund for Adult Education to the American Library Association, with which to establish adult community discussion groups on the background of our American heritage and its contemporary application, particularly the contemporary application. Well, now what is this American heritage that you're investigating? How would you describe it, Mitch Swain? The American heritage is a way of life based on moral and ethical values. It is centered on the worth and dignity of each individual. It also guarantees to individuals the right to freedom with responsibility. Do you believe, Mike Swain, that this is something particularly American, or is it something which we have as a heritage from all of our past time? I think that it is a concept of life that has come through the ages from the creative thinking of able men and women, and even though the experiment began to be developed in this country, the ideas didn't originate. They are not typical America. Have we spelled it out in this country particularly? Yes, I think we have, Mrs. Stevenson. In what? I think there are, well, we spelled it out quite specifically in the Bill of Rights, I'm sure. There are other places in the Constitution and Declaration of Independence where they guarantee such rights as freedom of speech, press, to work, and attitudes like that. Well, now I would hope we could pin this American heritage that we're talking about down with some degree of specificity here. We've identified it with certain American documents with which we're all familiar, but more specifically, who? Well, McBurney, you're dean of a school of speech. You ought to know one of them at any rate. Freedom of speech is clearly one of the American freedoms that we're talking about, although certainly, as McSween says, it goes back to all of our history. The first article of the Bill of Rights of our Constitution, the First Amendment, says that we shall have no laws by our national government abridging the religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, or prohibiting the freedom of speech, or the right of people peaceably to assemble and petition the government for redress. In other words, these things which indicate so very clearly the proper role of the individual as he relates to the society around him. But, Si, doesn't that also mean that the individual, to earn these rights, must accept the responsibility to be careful of what he says in the exercise of freedom of speech, that he must be concerned about the degree in which he is informed on that which he's discussing? Well, as Justice Holmes says, the right of freedom of speech doesn't give you the right to cry a fire in a crowded theater. And I think this is true of all of these rights. The freedom of religion, which is one thing that we hold most dear, we still feel has some limitations when it comes to fanaticism. If a religion advocated assassination, for example, we have to do something about it. That's why these things are not quite immediately clear. They have to be discussed and thought about. And the freedom also implies, it seems to me, something else equally important, and that's a responsibility that we all have to see that the freedoms that we want and enjoy are allowed to other people as well. Well, now, these doctrines, these principles, were promulgated way back in 1776, as far as this country is concerned, at least. Are they the same now as they were then, Mick Swain? Well, I think we can say that the values, as they relate to the worth and dignity of human beings, are the same. The application of these values must be recognized in relation to the conditions of society in which we live. And I would be a little more interested in not only preserving the American heritage, but keeping it alive and continuing to build it and extend it. It's not something that's static. It's something that's always in the process of developing. Our forefathers, who wrote the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, probably absorbed their ideas from the earlier thinkers, both French, British, and so forth. It represented a goal at that time. We're still working toward that goal, the achievement of all these freedoms which they have listed for us. However, as Dr. McSwain says, it has to be always a flexible, adjustable concept. We can't consider it static at any time. Well, as you say, it's like this was something which people fought for in those days and which was not yet achieved. I should suggest that a parallel document today would be the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations. Well, we still have to fight for the things that were in the Declaration of Independence, and we shall have to fight for a very long time, probably, about extending that to all the peoples of the world, which is what the Universal Declaration does, does it not? But you have to keep running as hard as you can to stay where you are. To stay in the same place. What we found in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution are ideals and values, and how we apply those depends upon the courage and the understanding of individuals today. That's where our program comes in. May I get in a plug? Also, it depends on the willingness of the people to give and take on those ideas, not to look only for their own rights and privileges, but to look for those which they must safeguard for the other person. And it strikes me, as long as we're saying all of these things which one must do, that it involves the obligation to take on popular stands. As Ibsen said, you must never wear your best trousers when you go out to fight for liberty and truth. Well, now, does this imply all that you people have been saying here, that we are wearing our best trousers in our fight for liberty and truth? In my own opinion, we are a bit. In other words, is this heritage of ours, to put it a bit crassly, down at the heels? Why are you whipping up this interest at this particular time, Mrs. Stevenson? We have two reasons. We think there is a good deal of apathy in the country. People are not, they're sitting back. Times are good. We don't have to fight for the things that we want, we don't think. So we're trying to overcome that apathy. Furthermore, the world is in a very serious crisis, as I think you would all agree. And when we are in a world crisis, you have to fight for those things you hold dear. I think we also must recognize, at least from my point of view, that the Russian Politburo is determined to win by advocating a way of life that may arouse the interest and support of the underprivileged peoples of the world. They have a philosophy of life that they want to sell to people, and they are doing it on the basis of values and meanings for individuals. I think you're dead right, Mac. But one of the things that we have to remember in this modern fight has been the powerful attractiveness of the American heritage in its past history. First it's attracted, and then it's welded together people from all over the world. Because really, very few of us in America today had ancestors who were in this country when the Constitution was written. We're Germans, we're Poles, we're Chinese, we're Czechs, we're Scots, we're Welsh, we're French, we're Swedes. But we're also Americans. And I believe that it's the American heritage that is made as such, and it is these freedoms, which we ought to establish as the doctrine and the set of beliefs which we can set up against communism. But I'm afraid that the welding together of these various peoples has resulted in our considering the heritage as static. We're afraid that it's going to be threatened. We're afraid that it's going to not work as new problems come into the picture. We're afraid that there's going to be stresses and strains upon it which the Constitution, as it stands, can't meet. Are you causing me to raise in my mind the question? Here we are talking in a very fine way about what our forefathers did, this great American heritage. What are the people in 2000 going to say about the things that we are standing for today? What heritage are we building now? Is there any possibility that this work on the American heritage is sort of a nostalgic effort to apply a horse and buggy philosophy to a jet plane age? Not as far as our project is concerned. The thing we talk about mostly in these very live discussion groups is what are our problems today and what can these basic fundamentals of our doctrine do to help us solve them? We try to give people confidence in our system and assurance that it's strong enough and flexible enough to withstand any kind of strain. And we try to give them also, Ms. Stevenson, the concept that they must participate in order to assist in the maintenance of this heritage and participation through voting, through the active carrying of the responsibility of citizenship. And learn to translate this heritage into the institutions of our time. Well, I suspect that we have this heritage reasonably well identified and you people are now beginning to talk about some of the responsibilities it presents in this day and age. Let's see if we can make those responsibilities a bit more specific. After all, we're addressing ourselves to the question, how can the American heritage survive? How can it survive? Well, McBridey, there are two and a half billion people living on the face of the earth today and over half of them are underprivileged. They are the victims of control by the state or by individuals and they are looking to people who are going to help them find these badges and freedoms that we've talked about in this country. And I think one thing that we in America can do through group discussion and reading, inform ourselves of the conditions of other peoples of the world and what they're striving for and what they need. Well, now, is it sufficient if we inform ourselves? No, I think we're going to have to also be ready to help them help themselves. I'm a strong believer in our four-point program. I'm a strong believer in it too, but let's not have any cultural imperialism. I know very well, Mac, that you believe as strongly as I do that as we work with these peoples, by going back to the very conditions in which they're making their initial struggle for independence and freedom, they're going to teach us a lot too. Yes, I grant you that. At the same time, I think that we, who have lived through this great experiment, have something to offer them in the way of information and materials to work with that will increase that chance of developing the kind of government they own. First, your point four program goes considerably beyond providing them with information, if I understand it. It provides them with technical help, with resource help. It's not a process of giving it to them, but providing the facilities that help them raise themselves. Is there any possibility in attempting to help our neighbors, which certainly is a good Christian policy, that we might get ourselves in an extended position where we wouldn't be so strong at home? Well, I personally believe that if we used as much money for helping our other peoples of the world as we are in developing our military program, that our chances of survival might be greater. Well, what are you people going to do about those in our midst who reject our heritage and are working to destroy it? One difficulty about such people is that they often use the symbols of our heritage to destroy it. They often say that they're for free enterprise and freedom of speech at the very moment in which they are working effectively to kill both. To deny it to everybody else. That's one of the difficulties of approaching that problem, the utilization of our facilities, which are possible through publications, through books, through magazines, and so forth. Well, I'm not as much concerned about these few that you are referring to is I am the millions who seem to be complacent about their responsibility as free citizens to carry out in daily living the obligations that the Constitution places upon each of us. Yes, I agree with you, Dr. McSwain. I think if the democracy, as we know it, the American democracy, did not have a challenge, we might become even more complacent than we are now. Well, as one of these people, let me start over. When you started talking about people who are complacent and ignorant, I got a slightly guilty feeling. I'm not sure I'm doing as much as I should be doing. What should I do? Well, I think... Well, so far, you've said that you should go to your library and attend a discussion group. Well, I do that anyway. I would say more than that. I think I should work just as hard for other people to have the choice of their religion or their political party or their economic privilege as I want for myself. I also think that it's my responsibility to be careful how I use my freedom to vote, that I use it to vote for the man that I think, a woman who has the ability and the moral integrity to wait for those things that our heritage has given us. Well, now you're beginning to get specific. I'm going to press the question. What should John Doe, living in Vermilion, South Dakota, do about this or in Baton Rouge, Louisiana? So far, you said he should affiliate himself with a library discussion group or some other community project that would help him better to understand this heritage. And McSwain just said that he ought to exercise his right to vote. I feel very strongly that the American public and each individual in the American public have a definite responsibility for knowing the issues which are before the country. In other words, the education, knowledge, is essential to the success of a democracy. Now that's a lot easier said than done. When I go to the polls to vote and see this list of names down here, and I'm not completely illiterate, don't I have to be guided by party declarations in which I have some confidence? I don't know these people. Here they are for county offices and municipal offices. You do, I suppose, to a certain extent, but that does not relieve you of your obligation to inform yourself as fully as you possibly can. And all of us can do that much. There are places where you can find information if you'll just take the time and the responsibility to do it. But telling us to inform ourselves and setting a goal for us doesn't really, I think, Mrs. Stevenson, answer the question in a good many places because as one who is a student of adult education, I know all too well and all too uncomfortably that there are really in our modern society a very small number of institutions to serve the hundred million American adults. One thing which I'm trying to do and which Max Swain used to do before he went on to hire things is to attempt to build an adult educational program within a university as you're building one within a public library. So I suppose those of us who do have some connection with these institutions have got a kind of sense of responsibility which I must say in all humility I don't think I'm doing myself adequately to build to build new programs new sorts of ways by which people rather effectively can look at their society systematically and know something about it. Of course I assume that a good many great American institutions share in this task. Our great public school system, our private school system, our churches, temples, and synagogues share in this responsibility. The Northwestern reviewing stand. I hope it does and we try to take And you didn't mention the public library. Take that responsibility very seriously. Dr. McBurney, I think that there are many institutions where we can find help. The important thing for me as a citizen is to be motivated to want to use the facilities that are available. To ask myself, do I understand what are some of the basic issues that threaten the American heritage and how much understanding, how much information I have on each of these issues. But this is true and our task in society is, as Dean McBurney has said, to build all these institutions. But it does seem to me that in many ways the library is a perfect place to celebrate and discuss the American heritage because it's so clearly an embodiment of that heritage. It's free. fits our tradition of individual enterprise and opportunity and it offers hope and encouragement and understanding. It is itself a fulfillment of a dream. It contains the diverse viewpoints and the thoughts that men have had. It's one of the great resources. And there's one wonderful thing about a public library. you can go there any day and begin. That comes much better from you than it did from me, Mr. Gould. I hoped you would say that. Well, now, we're getting into this a little before I intended to, but since we're talking about the libraries, I've been in them off and on. often they impress you as a place where a great quiet exists and a rather austere person that presides over the checking in of books and the checking out of books. And the consummate achievement is gained when all books are in and in perfect order. Dean McBurney, I can't think how many years out of date you are. I do think, I do think, as, as, I was hoping you'd fight on that one. I do think, as Fielding said, McBurney, that you shouldn't pretend to more ignorance than you really have. Well, are you saying, Cy, that the library may serve as a center for organizing discussion groups and to provide leaders for discussion groups that the public libraries may do for adults in this country what our public schools have done for children and youth? I think that it's one institution which ought to do so, but with a hundred million adults going to school, ideally, let's say, for forty or fifty years, there's plenty of room for all of them. Now, I'd be horribly remiss in my responsibilities as moderator here if I didn't give the librarian of the Denver Public Library a chance to jump on me a little bit. I'm sure that it was many years ago since you went into a public library. There are some seven thousand public libraries in the United States. Each of these, assuming such responsibilities as we have discussed here, could contribute a great deal to the development of the American heritage, to the political thinking of America. the library you describe, McBurney, certainly was one which has long since disappeared in most cases. Now, for your information, generally, there's far more noise in the library than there are, than there is in many other institutions in the city. That, I believe, to be very frank about it. Now, I want to go back to this, this bill of particulars that we were attempting to develop here. We've said a number of specific things that there should be political participation, that we should exercise our right to vote. To what does this heritage commit us in the economic realm, would you say, Hul? It seems to me that it, that it commits us to a kind of government which loosely we call democracy. I don't believe that this heritage, we've been calling it the American heritage because it's in this form that we cherish it, but we do want to remember that this heritage goes far beyond and behind America and goes far outward in, in other realms. Excuse me, you're still talking in, in political terms. My question was, the, in the economic realm. Yes, I'm quite willing to, to, to say that. In the economic realm, what we have to do, I believe, is to have a system of real free enterprise, by which I mean the opportunity of the individual to develop to the extent of his ability and to work collectively, and in which he is not hampered either by government or by economic institutions that, um, say they are working for free enterprise but, in effect, are attempting to cut it out. Now, I want to ask a very, uh, specific question on that, uh, Hul, if I may. Are you saying that, that the, the, uh, American heritage, which we've been discussing here, uh, commits us to the free enterprise system, that the free enterprise system is in, in, is inherent in these, these, uh, principles? You, you should really consult an economist rather than me, uh, on this question because so much is done under the name of the free enterprise system that we don't really, in many cases, know what it is. But I do indeed believe, yes, that the economic system, um, which calls for, uh, the ability of the individual to develop and to have aspirations and to have goals is essential. Well, now, if I, if I may attempt to answer my own question, I, I believe that most emphatically. Um, I do not believe that you can have communism or that you can have fascism, uh, and I'm thinking of those in economic terms now. Yes, I was about to say. And have our American heritage. I think we are committed in the economic realm to a system of, of, of free enterprise. Now, it gives you plenty of latitude. It may not be the free enterprise system that I like or that you like, Mrs. Stevenson, or that you like, Nick Swain. There's plenty of room for debate. But we are committed to that concept. But, Nick, I think we must recognize that we are facing, uh, an opposition today that is out to win. And it's necessary for those of us who believe in our great American heritage to try to find some grounds of agreement on those things that are important and unite in seeing the great opportunity in this country, which can be preserved only as we individually practice the things that the heritage stands for. There's no doubt about that, Mac. Um, and one thing that we ought to say in connection with this discussion of free enterprise, which I feel a bit uncomfortable in myself since I'm not an economist, one thing I would always argue for is that not only should we have a, the right of business and of industry itself to determine its own development, but we've got to fight for the right of the worker and the other people, uh, in our society to express their views in, in this economic realm in which they have as great a stake as any of the rest of us. With that, with that, I think we, we all agree. Now, I want to ask another question. To, uh, to what does this heritage that we're discussing here commit us in the international realm? Now, earlier in the discussion, uh, you referred to the, uh, what was it? The, uh, Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is contained in the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, United Nations. Now, spell that out a bit. Well, um, we know that the constitution of this country was worked out through a long summer's negotiation by people from 13 colonies. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights was worked out by the representatives of over 50 nations, uh, working and collaborating together to try to find, uh, a real expression of man's unity in, in thought and belief. And, therefore, it strikes me that it is the same kind of a document except, of course, that its base is so much broader. It builds on the kinds of things in our American heritage but carries them a stage beyond. Now, we're, we're back to this, uh, this question that was before us earlier, uh, about the danger we run of sort of, uh, cultural imperialism. Are we trying to, is, is, is it our God-given task to, to carry the word? Uh, if necessary, with guns. To, uh, Korea, to, uh, to Russia, to Germany. If necessary with dollars. Completely inconsistent with our American heritage, the use of force. Now, hold on. I, I, I don't agree to that. I don't agree to that. I think, though, it means that we must have greater faith in the things that we say the heritage, uh, presents to us. And that we must not only be interested and strive to provide those things for Americans, but we must help to bring those about for those people of the world who are wanting to be free and who are being pulled. I'm sorry, Mr. Stevenson, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Can the American Heritage Survive? We want to thank our guests today, John Eastlick, librarian of the Denver Public Library, Cyril O'Hoole, dean of University College at the University of Chicago, E.T. McSwain, dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University, and Mrs. Grace Thomas Stevenson, director of the American Heritage Project of the American Library Association. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents and coin, or you may want to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. These rates will remain in effect until February 15th, after which they must be raised to meet higher operating costs. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss what's behind the Egyptian crisis. Our guest will be William McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University, Charles Mallet, associate professor of British history at the University of Chicago, and Hussein Kamal Salim, dean of the faculty of commerce at Fuad University, Cairo, Egypt. We hope you will be with us next week as we explore this very interesting question, what's behind the Egyptian crisis? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Caught on display on the Times. Choosing Is The Swing Is To