There are some few immediate essentials, however, seem to demand instant action. We are informed that each of you Korean veterans are the recipient of blood plasma from battle wounds. We are also aware that blood donations are short of adequate supply. That this condition exists, of course, is not intentional on the part of the American public. But the situation does exist. Despite the organized and the continued effort of an inspired Red Cross, and yet each one of us in our own way can do so much to effect a cure of that situation. By personal contribution, by word of mouth solicitation, by preaching the gospel of necessity, and encouraging others to do the same, we can bring this blood quota up to the safety factor point. If necessity required within our own families, none of us would hesitate. Some of us have relatives, friends, and acquaintances who are now on the Korean front. Tomorrow, all of us may have someone very dear to us somewhere else in action. But tomorrow could be too late. New York has two organizations, which I hope I'll be pardoned for mentioning. One of the first members of the National Guard, fighting in Korea today, won the 955th Field of Tallery Battalion, which springs from the glorious old 14th Regiment of Brooklyn. The other of the Grand 100 First Signal Battalion are Yonkers, composed of what in my 30-odd years in the National Guard of the State of New York I consider to be, along with the rest of our National Guard, among the finest young troopers of whom I have ever seen. These organizations have been in action for eight months. And both have been commended for their service by the Department of the Army. In addition to that, we have also a great number of officers and enlisted men who have since lost their outfits. And by that, many of you here tonight know exactly what I mean. We at the New York National Guard are proud of all of them. The two organic outfits in Korea who are fighting there today, and the rest of those men who are no longer with their outfits. Perhaps, for that reason, we are closer to this blood bank picture. In any event, we have tried to do something about it. We have organized a program which is now underway, and which calls for blood donations by every remaining unit in the New York National Guard Army and Air. And to this, I may add, since the Governor's return from Korea, his visit to the front last summer, and to our two grand outfits over there, we have attempted to accentuate not only our planning, but our organization and the execution of those plans which we have tried to get underway. I sometimes think that if we as citizens can only put on a spontaneous drive, a blood drive, to compare in our own small way with the drive of the UN forces in Korea, from Incheon, and the drive from Suo up to Pyongyang, then I think our mission would be accomplished. You all recall the expression, the shot that's heard around the world. I think yet somebody, before we're through with this and before too long, will echo that in the sentiments, the catch phrase, if you will, or whatever it takes, that will catch on. And then our drive, our blood drive, from New York to Korea, will be underway. We all remember the great part that our allies played in the two world conflicts before our commitment, I mean the commitment of our own fighting forces. With this knowledge, I think we can, we should, promote better understanding of the magnificent part that our sister nations of the UN, money with limited capabilities, as we all know, have played on the Korean front and other places as well. Unity of purpose in the present emergency requirements is one of the essential necessities of the day. Here in the safety and the comfort and the luxury of our own home front, may I please say, let us try to develop and to demonstrate the same effectiveness in mutual defense against aggression which the combined UN team effort has accomplished in Korea. From you, the gentlemen here present tonight whom we honor, the representatives of the components of the UN, who have contributed so much to the protection and the preservation of a freedom-loving world, we inherit a sacred heritage, one, in my opinion, humble opinion at least, to honor and to cherish for all times. May we, the people of New York, our civic officials, citizens, veterans, patriotic groups, and the military, prove ourselves equal to this heritage by accepting and accomplishing our mission in the days ahead with the same unselfish devotion which has guided your efforts and those of your comrades, many of them even unto death. The United Nations is represented here tonight by the Assistant Secretary General and Acting Secretary General of the United Nations, the Honorable Benjamin Cone of Chile. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, honor of guests, ladies and gentlemen, may I at the very outset express to you, Mr. Mayor, the thanks of the United Nations for the warm hospitality which you have extended to our soldiers in Korea. When we honor them, Mr. Mayor, we are also honoring much more than the individuals here present. We are honoring an idea which has grown into a reality, the idea that men of all races, all creeds, all cultural backgrounds, can fight together for a superior purpose, to achieve an aim which is a duty of the whole world to sustain. These men, ladies and gentlemen, have given courageously and generously of their own blood. And they are here representing the thousands of other men who tonight are in the foxholes of Korea, or sailing on the ships over the choppy waters of the Yellow Sea, or flying over the tormentous air over Korea. They represent the first united effort by free men to defend freedom and to preserve peace. It is the first case in the history of the world in which men have banded together to restore the rule of law violated by aggressors. They are, ladies and gentlemen, the best expression of what the United Nations stands for. They are men from nations which only yesterday were colonial, were under metropolitan powers. They are men who represent racial groups which until very recently had a right to complain about the conduct of the men in the European and American continent towards them. And yet, moved by a superior ideal, the ideal of the United Nations. They are all, as friends and comrades, fighting the common struggle against aggression. This is not an imperialistic adventure being carried on under the flag of the United Nations. The United Nations. May I say that I recall at this moment the thousands of men who have laid down their lives in the bleak land of Korea. And I think, as we all do in the United Nations, of the millions of Koreans who have been unwilling victims of outside aggression, and to whom we must all extend not only our friendship but our help. For they must rebuild the nation, destroyed by war, and restore it to the position of dignity which it had before the 25th of June, 1950. We hope that you men of the United Nations forces in Korea will carry back with you the feeling that we will not let you down. That you will find both among the peoples of your respective nations and in the United Nations all the support and all the elements which are necessary for this. And I hope for you to continue your courageous struggle for peace and for freedom. General William Barringer, Chief of Staff of the First Army, has a message from General, General Crittenberger to deliver to our honored guest tonight. General William Barringer, Chief of Staff of the First Army, General Crittenberger to deliver to our Leader of the United Nations, General Crittenberger to deliver to the United Nations, and for the United Nations, General Crittenberger to deliver to the United States, and he can't call him to the west coast. And he cannot be here to honor with you these brave soldiers. I do not intend to make a speech but I can't resist the temptation of reporting to you what to me was a most inspiring sight today. sight today when every wounded veteran from Korea, now a member of the First Army, assembled and to a man volunteered to donate blood to his comrades on the battlefield. Those men... Those men who had received blood when they needed it so badly and knowing what it means, now having been restored to health, are sending back their own blood to their bodies. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Whelan, I thank you for the privilege of being with you tonight. Better than any other system yet devised. Surely it must be some great inner satisfaction to the people of Korea, particularly, and to the rest of the world in general, when they are threatened with subversion or aggression, military or economic, political, philosophical, in anyway, the back of them, supporting them, working for them, praying for them and fighting for them, is the mass dynamic effort of we, the people of the United Nations. It was, I think, an inspired thing which could be used again today, which Milton wrote many, many years ago, and which could apply to the people of Korea, particularly today. And he said then, oh, how comely it is, and how revivifying to the spirits of just men, long oppressed, when God, into the hands of their deliverers, puts invincible might. Thank you, sir. Thank you. We have a distinguished churchman here tonight, whom I hope will stand so that we can pay him a tribute. His Eminence, Greek Orthodox Archbishop Michael of North and South America. Will you please stand? Thank you. One of the great heroes that we honour tonight, will respond for his fellow One of the great heroes that we honor tonight will respond for his fellow wounded United Nations servicemen, Captain Richard Baldwin of the United States Air Force. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman, and you the distinguished hosts of New York City. It is one thing to talk before such a distinguished group of people and another to follow such a talented and well-known individual as Mr. Fairbanks, Jr. On behalf of my fellow United Nations servicemen, I wish to express the deep humility that we feel and the honors that you have bestowed upon us in these past few days. I have no words that are adequate that could truly express the feelings that we all have in our hearts for the touching, the kindness, the things that you have done for us these past few days. Today has been a day that will long be remembered by myself and by each one of my constituents. We want to thank you for making this day such a memorable part of our lives. I wish to assure you people of New York City and Americans especially that we realize our obligation as representing the air groups, the ships, the frontline divisions in Korea. The obligation that they have sent us home to you here in America to receive your honor, to receive your praise, and the many kindness that you have put upon us these past few days. We accept these for those people, and we thank you for those people. The medal that I have here around my neck, which you so graciously put there this afternoon at City Hall, is a symbol, a symbol for everything that we are fighting for. And as we responded then, will we be responded again that we accept it on behalf and for the names of all of the people, of our comrades in arms who are still in Korea, the ones that will follow us, and the ones whose names that we hold honorable in our hearts who have passed on. There has been no highlight here in New York. They have all been the same, each one leading up, meaning something symbolic and something different. However, the banquets and the food and the continual eating, the wonderful way that you have treated us all here, I'm afraid by the time we get to San Francisco, that instead of a medal around our neck here, that it is going to require San Francisco to put an abdominal support, excuse it, a men's girdle here. Ladies and gentlemen, and fellow Americans, and United Nations members, it is each one of our prayers, my 48 constituents that are with me, that the honor and the trust and the faith that you have put in us is our prayers, that it becomes a living reality for future Americans and future free people of the world, for someone to look upon and to know that we will have a free world. Thanks for letting us be with you. Yeah, yeah, good, good. Thank you. . Benediction will be given by the Reverend Canon Thomas A. Sparks, representing the right, Reverend Horace William Donegan, Bishop of New York. Almighty God, creator of all men of all nations, we praise thee for the United Nations, for our membership in it, and especially at this time may give thanks to thee for the safe return of these veterans who honor us with their presence and who have striven so nobly to uphold democratic ideals of justice and righteousness and for the nations from whence they come. May our gratitude to them never grow less and may the renown of their celebrated deeds be carried down to children of children yet unborn for all time. Protect the armed forces of the United Nations in their lawful tasks to the end that good may prevail over evil. If it be thy will, O gracious Lord, give peace in our time, comfort the wounded, assuage the sorrowful, and receive in mercy and peace the fallen. May this food been blessed to our use and us to thy service, and make us ever mindful of the wants of others, all of which we humbly offer to thee in thy blessed name. Amen. May I ask, as we close this, uh, program, we adjourn this dinner in honor of the greatest stars that the starlight roof have ever seen. And may I ask those that are seated directly in front or in the audience to please remain seated until the honored guests leave the room because they must be up and at it at 4 o'clock tomorrow morning. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been listening to a broadcast of the festivities here in the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria for 50 wounded veterans of the Korean War. These men representing 19 nations have been saved through your donations of blood. They have begun a nationwide tour to appeal for more blood for Korea and to gain support for the United Nations' effort there. Here at the Waldorf on the last night of their three-day visit to New York, they were addressed by the honorable mayor of the city of New York, Vincent Arum Pelletere, Brigadier General William H. Kelly, representing Governor Dewey, Herbert Cohen in behalf of the United Nations, General William Barringer, and Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., the national chairman of American Relief for Korea. A prayer was offered by Rabbi Morris M. Goldberg, President of the New York Court of Rabbis, and the benediction was given by the Reverend Thomas A. Sparks. Captain Richard Baldwin of the United States Air Force responded for the 50 veterans. And the master of ceremonies was the honorable Grover A. Whalen, chairman of the mayor's reception committee. Tomorrow these 50 men leave for Boston where they will be split up into two groups, one to tour the northern, the other through the southern states in their continued appeal for blood donations. Now as the work of these 50 wounded members of the United Nations forces in Korea is finished in New York City this evening, so now is our broadcasts and we return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Ideal apologizing and is installed. According to the current Five Five Five Five Six official office mustache corrosive strategy is a salvation conservative democracy, in itslair must learn fromоры by Research Hat ogl. Which generates played talked about some awards for all his people. Here's the Municipal Broadcasting System. A Salogen Negativeόtons.