The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What is happening to American literature? To me, I think the greatest want since the end of the war is the return to telling a story. The way you interest people, where suspense and the straightforward telling of a man's problems and his adventures seems to disappear. I mean, people seem to be getting off the track on that. I don't know. When I look at bestseller lists and see the predominance of bad novels on it, I think it's very discouraging. When I look at some of the work of the new young writers, short stories and novels since the war, it looks very encouraging. The thing which concerns me most about literature today may be summed up in the phrase, the personal arrogance of the authors. In other words, I think the authors today are too much interested in themselves and their own personal problems, and not enough interested in what the reader wants or what the reader desires. Poetry is in a state of transition between a period of obscurity and intellectual snobbery, back to simplicity and music, thank heaven. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents on transcription the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand takes a look at the American literary scene. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the quality of new literature being published, the tastes of the reading public, and our position in the literary world. We ask, what is happening to American literature? And now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. To classify any bit of writing as good literature is always a volcanic action. The question of just what is good writing still arouses heated debate in the classroom, in columns of book reviewers, or in any living room conversation. But, good or bad, what is America writing today? What are we reading? And what is liable to happen to our novels, poetry, biography, stories, articles? To answer these questions, the reviewing stand today welcomes F. Van Wake Mason, author of the bestseller, Eagle in the Sky, and Cutlass Empire, just recently published, and 36 other books. Robert Hillier, Pulitzer Prize winner, President of the Poetry Society of America, whose newest book is The Death of Captain Nemo. Emmett Dedman, author and literary editor of the Chicago Sun-Times, and Edward Harris Heff, author whose books include If You Lived Here, and a novel which has been screened and is now showing in motion picture theaters, Any Number Can Play. Now, Colonel Mason, you place emphasis on the story part of writing. Is that the criterion, then, of good literature? Well, as I say, it's a criterion of part of it. Literature, of course, is a very broad word, and I don't particularly like it, because I think it has an awful lot of long-haired connotations, at least for me, as a professional writer of 22 years. I get a little bit tired of these people that take a week to write a paragraph and a month to admire it. And I believe that the novelist's job is to entertain the public truthfully, honestly, and, as I say, introducing his own ideas, but in terms that people can understand, and on subjects in which they're interested. I don't believe in forcing them to read something they don't want to read. Is that the criterion that you use, then, Mr. Heff, when you talk about good and bad books on the bestseller list? Oh, yes. I mean that very much, and possibly a little bit more. I mean, I think there's an essence of quality that should be added, and I don't mean quality as a snobbish, aesthetic word. I mean quality of craftsmanship, which, of course, is how you entertain. I also mean quality of content, quality of intention. Well, I think we introduce another idea here that you've brought up, Mr. Dedman, speaking of authors and readers. Now, how can an author know what a reader wants if he's to follow your particular criterion of literature? Well, an author is like anyone else, it seems to me. He has to be good at his particular business. He has to know it. Just like a bookkeeper who has to know bookkeeping, the author has to know the art of writing. And perhaps it's instinctive, and perhaps it's partially a matter of training. But the author certainly should have some standards to which he adheres and to which he pays respect. In other words, he shouldn't just put down in the book any idea which comes to his mind or happens to interest him. He must ask himself the question, does this tie in with the story? Will this interest the reader? Does this question have validity for anyone else but myself personally? Many books we've had the last few years, two I could mention, recently published. Christopher Morley's The Man Who Made Friends With Himself and Philip Wiley's Opus 21, both of which are bestsellers, as Mr. Heth has indicated or suggested at least. Both these books, the authors, who are well-known authors, what I would call first-rate authors, haven't kept faith with the readers, it seems to me. They've simply gotten a lot of ideas off their mind, personal ideas, and haven't told a story. Mr. Herrier, would these remarks fit in with the production and writing of poetry? Oh, very much, I think, especially Mr. Dedman's phrase, personal arrogance, has been so much of that. It's a sort of broken-down form of romanticism where the artist becomes more important than the audience. We've had it with us now for almost 30 years, and it's resulted in private references and obscurity, and a sort of snobbish cutting off of the public from poetry. And furthermore, the older writers, a great many of them about my age, have been somewhat responsible for this, because many of them are teaching and have brought up their pupils in the tradition, wherein there are only two guards, T.S. Eliot and Ezra Pound, both of whom belong to the School of Incomprehensibility, and both of whom have wielded a fantastic influence. For example, for a long time, Eliot didn't like Milton. Nobody could like Milton if he wished to be in fashion. Suddenly the master changed his mind, just like orders from Moscow, you know. And as one man who heard one of Eliot's lectures remark, I've just paid $500 from our lecture committee to learn that I am now allowed to admire Milton. Well, that's the way it's been. And it's been for 30 years, and it's grotesque, and luckily the younger poets are themselves throwing it off. Now we've had, it seems to me, three possibilities here for a writer. One, he writes for himself. Two, he writes what he thinks is really good, really fine. And three, he writes because he knows it will sell to the public. Colonel Mason, what do you say in that? What approach do you take? Is writing a job? Is it an art? What approach do you take? Mr. Buchanan, I think you just put it, I mean, led right into what I was going to say. And that is, there's so much nonsense about writing. Now we know that if somebody wants to become an architect, or he wants to become a doctor or a lawyer, that he must put in long years of study. He doesn't expect to win a great case if he's a lawyer. He doesn't perform the impossible operation if he's a doctor. But everybody seems to think they can sit down and write a story without any trouble at all, without any study, without any analysis of how to achieve the effects. They sit down and they send it in on one side of the paper with a pencil to the Saturday Evening Post and say, please return check they're here with. And they don't realize that it takes a long and very painful apprenticeship before you can become a competent performer. Colonel Mason, haven't you heard the reply when you will say to someone, this doesn't make sense, or this isn't well done, and they will say in their defense, well, that's how I feel. That's the way it seemed to me. Which gets away from the fact that it takes a certain amount of training to express something so that it's not only as it seems to you but as it seems to someone else. Well, Mr. Deben, I think that's why there's so many trunks full of manuscripts that never will be published. Colonel Mason, that's what I meant, what you said, that there are simply too many people writing books who have no idea of how to write a book or have no intention of putting in a hard job on writing that book. The unhappy thing is that so many of those books are making so much money. Yes, and of course one can say the same thing from the point of view of poetry because very few people realize that the technique of poetry, versification in other words, and that's the only thing you can talk about because you can't define poetry which is the essence of the matter, versification is just as elaborate a technique as orchestration. Who would listen to a symphony by a person who'd never learned the modulation of the flutes in reference to the violins? Nobody would want to, though much modern music may sound like that. But so many just sit down and tune in with the infinite and expect their pencils to produce a masterpiece through automatic suggestion. Aren't we striking a heavy blow here at inspiration? Do you mean you just sit down and say, I will create a masterpiece and it flows out, Mr. Deben? No, I definitely do not think it flows out. I think that there must be inspiration in order to produce a masterpiece or even a book which is not a masterpiece perhaps, but which is a good book for of its own kind and in its own day. But in addition to inspiration, there must be discipline. There must be a knowledge of techniques. You can't become a good writer without disciplining yourself and learning any more than you can become a good bricklayer. Don't you think that inspiration is just the fuse to the shell? The shell can't go off without it, but the fuse alone can't accomplish much. Mr. Hilliard and O'Hour Tillerman, I think that's a very absimile. Thank you. And also that you can't expect to blow down a big building with a small shell, which I think is what a lot of people are trying to do today. They have a small caliber gun in their equipment and they expect to blow down a whole building. Well, Parnassus itself. Or I think I've been taught the fact that you should know the rules to be able to break them. In other words, if you break a rule for a purpose, it's agreeable. But if you merely break it to be smart or new or appeal to the public, it probably has little effect. Well, I'm wondering about what an author should have in the way of a viewpoint and propaganda. Should he try to tell the people what he thinks is right? Do you believe, Colonel Mason? Yes, I think so. I mean, you don't have to be too exact about what you're trying to teach except the truth. I mean, I learned many years ago that history is so badly taught in schools. I mean, I wrote a series of four books on the American Revolution with a fundamental idea of educating a lot of the particular people. The new citizens who never would read a formal history, but still explaining to them the purpose back of the revolution, our war for independence, and showing how people lived in those days. Now, there, I think, I mean, I've got a little message. I mean, but I'm not telling them that they've got to believe that we were all right and the British were all wrong, because nothing could be further from the truth. There was, I mean, a good deal on both sides. And I think you serve a useful purpose by presenting that in terms of people will read. Well, it's a viewpoint then, but it isn't propaganda. I remember in Colonel Mason's Eagle in the Sky, I think I learned more about the history of medicine and early forms of surgery than I might have in any textbook. And, of course, I wouldn't have read a textbook on early surgery, but I did read Eagle in the Sky. A question which I would like to ask Mr. Hillier, however, is what he thinks about the modern poets who don't pay any attention to versification, at a point which was illustrated by a friend of mine who's, I found a poem of his in a modern little magazine, as they are called, literary magazine. And I said, that was rather a strange poem to be appearing in that magazine. And he said, well, as a matter of fact, it wasn't a poem at all. It was a prose paragraph from my new novel, and I simply rearranged it in the form of poetry and submitted it to the magazine. It was published as a poem. Do you think there is any such thing as poetic prose, Mr. Hillier? Well, it's a sort of in-between territory. I know that Louis Untemeier took the poetic passages from Thomas Wolfe and divided them into lines according to the cadences, which is an interesting experiment. It doesn't seem to amount to very much because the tradition of versification is one with the language. People think of it as an artificial thing, but the meters as we have them have grown up naturally with the language. And it is proved by the fact that great poetry always precedes great prose in a language. And great poetry is the more basic, metrical poetry is the more basic, the more natural form of expression. Now, Mr. Hillier, can I ask you in your opinion of John Brown's body? I mean, that to my mind is prose come poetry. I mean, it's being in my field, I think that that poem has always exemplified the spirit of the people during those particular years of the Civil War. What do you think of that? Yes, well, there's a narrative poem. We, uh, it has, of course, what Dryden called long flats between elevations. And that's right, any long poem should have. You can't keep any long poem at a lyric pitch all the time, and you shouldn't. Uh, in Homer, of course, there are long flats between elevations too, and that's right, that's necessary. That gives balance. So there's a difference in the intention of a narrative poem, like John Brown's body, where you have all sorts of moods, some lyric, some very active, some almost prosy, as you say, exposition, which is necessary. And that's all part of the epic or narrative poem. The lyric poem, of course, is different and is a condensed moment in music. Tell me, Mr. Hillier, what do you think of poetry, not to belabor the poets too much, what do you think of poetry such as Edith Sitwell, which requires footnotes to understand it on the part of the reader? Well, I must say, I don't care about footnotes. I think they belong in PhD theses. And not in poetry. Not in poetry. It also requires her voice, doesn't it, Mr. Hillier? It certainly does, which is a very fine voice for the word. Mr. Dedman has brought up another point, that of research, talking about Colonel Mason's novel. What do you do in a historical novel, Colonel Mason, to prepare for it? How much research do you do? What books do you read? And how much of that can you use when you actually write? Well, that's a long, very sad story in the sense that you only can use about 10%. If you're a practiced historical writer, you can only use about 10% of the mass of material that you collect. And you shouldn't use more than that 10%, because after all, you're telling a story. The great bulk of the research goes to make your characters, your background seem live and real. And it's nothing specific. And, of course, you have the names of ships and the calibers of guns and things like that. Currency and clothes. And people are interested in those things. And I'd rather wonder how Mr. Heth goes about doing the background of his very excellent books on the... One that's just come out recently, I think, is magnificent. Well, I'd say that is done mostly from personal experience. Of course, they're not historical novels. No, I know that, but that's being a different bracket. They're all contemporary, yeah. And simply recording life I've known or seen at some time or other. Well, Mr. Heth, do you agree with my position as a literary critic that I like not only what the author puts in, but even more than that, what he decides to leave out? Indeed, I certainly do. What about the criticism of the historical novel as the fact that there are no plots being engendered, that people today can't develop a plot as you have, Mr. Heth, so they have to go back to history and repeat that. I might challenge you with that, Colonel Mason. Well, I think the plots are just exactly the same then as they are now. You just use a different background, the same impulses are there. I mean, people still want to get ahead, and they want to marry the girl, and they want to win the battle. And I don't see there's any difference between the story of accomplishment today and the story of accomplishment as far as Homer is the most perfect example of the story of accomplishment. The whole odyssey is his efforts to get home and the obstacles that arise, including SEX, as we've been told, and other things. I mean, Circe worked on him, and he had all kinds of obstacles. But it's the reason why it survived. It's a great story. And I still go back to the fact that, I mean, the story is everything. Shakespeare didn't waste too much time thinking of the plots of King Lear or King Richard, did he? Well, I presume not. Of course, you can go back to find a lot of his plots, of course, are from the Iliad and the Odyssey and so forth. Well, so I mean they are legends that have been handed down. In other words, no matter how far back we go, boy was still meeting girl, in your opinion. Well, that fits in with your view, Mr. Dedman, that the author should hold a mirror to life. If he's repeating a legend which is a part of life, it must contain the elements thereof. But what about a person who starts out to write a story which he at least thinks is his own? Well, it depends on what method he wishes to use to present it. In other words, someone like Betty McDonald, who wrote The Egg and I, tells, quite frankly, a personal story. Someone else like Betty Smith, who wrote A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, tells her personal story but disguises it in the form of fiction. But in each of those cases, it seems to me the writer is holding a mirror up to life and helping the reader have new experiences to share different experiences. Just as Colonel Mason takes us back and recreates the era of the Revolutionary War in his new books, I believe it's going to be The Civil War. The writer today, such as Mr. Heth, creates a contemporary scene with which we are acquainted, at least. But he projects us into the middle of us. He puts us down in the middle of this little town, as Mr. Heth did in his last book, and lets us meet these people just as though he had done it in actual life. And that is what I mean by holding a mirror up to life, not to hold a mirror up in which you see only the author's own image. Such as Thomas Wolfe did in The Web and the Rock, in which there are about 600 pages of very florid prose. And a lot of people like Thomas Wolfe, and I do in certain respects, but I remember that the last scene after 600 pages finds the author solving all his problems by looking in the mirror, which it seems to me he's been doing all along anyway. And that an author has to look someplace else other than a mirror in order to find what the reader is interested in. What happens when we recreate this story for the movies? I'd like to put you on the spot, Mr. Heth, with Any Number Can Play. Are you satisfied with what the movies did to your book? Well, I'm probably the only living author who is satisfied with what Hollywood did to his book. I had nothing to do with it. It was originally owned by another picture company, and what they did with it was fairly fantastic. As you know, it's the story of a gambler in a small town. Well, the original script had him in the village on the border between Mexico and California. He was not a gambler. He was a composer. Well, isn't that the same thing? That's right. Except the odds are different. Yeah, the odds are higher. But the present movie, I think they've done a fine job of it. They've kept the mood, which is very unusual for Hollywood. They've kept the spirit, the... so many of the minor characters, the minor details. I mean, they've almost made a literal transcription of the book in action. Well, what does that develop to then into another subject, the trends in literature? How is our literature standing up, or perhaps I should use writing, Colonel Mason, to follow up your view. How is our writing standing up to that of other nations, to other communities? Well, with all modesty, I think we are producing probably far and away the best writing today. It's largely a question of economy. It goes back to the selfishness of the publishers on the continent. Over there, the writer comes around with his hat in his hand, and the publisher is pleased to toss him a few crumbs. Well, the really good men won't stand for that sort of treatment. They do one of two things. Either, if they can, they can come over here, or they turn to something else. Now, look at the barrenness of the French literature since the turn of the century. They've had very, very little. Now, there was a nation that produced tremendously valuable contributions. Now, nothing. Occasionally, you get a book from Europe. The reason is the selfishness of the publishers. They take too much of the profits. In England, it's the same thing. Well, would you say then, Colonel Mason, that the fact that literature, or book publishing, or writing, has become a big business in this country has not hurt literature, but has rather helped it? Well, of course, you get an awful lot of bad with the good, Mr. Dedman. I mean, we certainly produce a terrible amount of bad literature. I won't call literature bad writing. And, but, it's the old story that, I mean, if you don't have volume, you don't get competition, and you don't get good results. And if you choke off the writer with a pittance, you're not going to get enough so that you can winnow out the bad and keep the good. Now, Colonel Mason, you and Mr. Heth both write fiction. What do you think of the statement which is continually made that publishers aren't publishing much fiction anymore because people have quit reading it? Why do you think people have quit reading fiction? Do you think that it isn't vital enough, or do you think it doesn't count? Well, I don't think people ever would quit reading good fiction if it were good fiction. Well, I think it's the point that I can't come back to that it isn't fiction anymore. There's too much propaganda and people just will not take it on top of the radio and the movies and all the rest of it. There's too much personalizing, as you said earlier, too much of the personal arrogance, too much holding up that mirror to the brain and finding it empty. What about the trends in literature toward any specific thing? For instance, the rise of psychological novels, so-called. And now I understand, Mr. Dedman, we may be in for a series of novels and biographies dealing with medicine and the approach of doctors. Well, that's right. Looking at the advance, well, I think it's that, you know, all publishing is concentrated in New York City without appearing to be provincial because we're in Chicago. And I think that an idea will get going around, for instance, that it would be a great thing that there hasn't been a good novel about a doctor in a long time. And the gossip sort of goes around among the publishing houses. And every editor goes out and digs up a novel about a doctor. If one comes in on medicine, they feel we're about due for another novel of that sort. Then all these books came out in the same, come out in the same period of time. They say, we've had too many novels on doctor. And if you have written the best novel that was ever written about a doctor, you can't get it published at that particular time. We've gone through that phase this last spring with novels on race relations in which one out of every four books we were reviewed were on, was on race relations. Now, for the last three months, not a single book has been on race relations. And the trends are largely governed, at least in those books which are published, by business considerations. Although there are exceptions to that rule, such as before Pearl Buck's first book on China, it was a standard tenet of publishing in New York that no book on China would sell. Then one book on China did sell, and we had a rush of books on China. But in general, in America today, I feel that the trends in writing are dictated not by the writers and their ideas, but rather by the publishers and business considerations. Would you agree with that, Mr. Heff? I should imagine so, and by things like the book clubs, which make circulation so tremendous. Yes. But even so, I don't think that the best writers, the most successful writers, are those which try to write for that particular market. I think that our most successful writers today are those who write what they have to say and throw it on the market. And that if it is good, that the trend will follow them rather than they're trying to follow the trend. I don't agree on that, Mr. Dedman. I think that the thing to do is to start the trend about the time when a previous one is wearing thin, as you say, like the psychological novels are now on the way out. I mean, try to go back about 30 years. I mean, these cycles are almost predictable, like the weather. I mean, you can come pretty close to what's going to happen, what the taste is going to be. For instance, I predict there are going to be a lot more stories on World War II before very long. Following the interest in World War I about six or seven years after the fact. You remember, I mean, what price, glory, and all those plays and so on. And there was a spate of books on World War I. I think now that if you can get a new approach to the problems of, or I mean, straight stories on World War II, that it's a very likely, very good likelihood of bringing it off. Of course, you've seen the start of it with the naked and the dead and so forth. But that's just the very beginning. Well, don't you think, though, that that's more a matter of the interest in these particular subjects growing than it is in authors trying to tailor their books to catch a particular moment? And, Mr. Dedman, isn't it what you meant that a good book is a good book in any time? That's right. Even though it might not have a good say. Well, maybe so. But I don't quite go with that because you can write the most perfect book, I mean, in my field, for instance, on the Mexican War, and you cannot sell it. I mean, there's some excellent books that have been done. People just are not interested in the Mexican War. Why? I cannot tell you. But, Colonel Mason, do you think there are any undiscovered geniuses in writing whose books simply aren't selling because they're missing their timing or aren't coming out at the right time, such as, for instance, Schubert and Wagner and music weren't appreciated in their own day and are now hailed as geniuses? And the same thing happened in painting. Do you think that that happens in literature very often? Sad to say, I think so. I think there are an awful lot of good books that have never seen the light of day simply because they came along at the wrong time. I mean, you can send in a book to a publisher and if he's already got two or three books on his safe, he's not going to take it no matter how good it is. Therefore, your professional writer must judge or anticipate the interest of the public as best he can. Because there are an awful lot of good books that came out, unfortunately, just two or three months after another book on the same subject had a success. Yes, well, I've... go ahead, Mr. I was simply going to say, now, also, with so many books being published now, aren't many good books unavoidably overlooked by critics, reviewers, magazines? That's true. Unfortunately, you see, the timing is important as... is as important as genius in writing, I'm afraid. I'm afraid. Well, I think everyone has a right to the opinion of what he reads and obviously the author must think his work is good or he wouldn't put it before the public. But it's the successful writer, as you said, who can write what the public thinks is good. And as you pointed out, good writing is not always the best criterion. To be realistic, I suppose most writers to live must write what will sell. If you can criticize the criticism of the public, and you can believe the public know what it wants, but above all, I think that we should look forward to new hope in American literature. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What is Happening to American Literature? A subscription now will ensure you copies of today's discussion, as well as feature discussions of government spending, our 81st Congress, the American Theatre, and world government. These topics will be discussed in later programs. Why not send now for these copies, which include a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today heard on transcription were Emmett Dedman, author and literary editor of the Chicago Sun-Times, Robert Hillier, Pulitzer Prize winner and president of the Poetry Society of America, F. Van Wyke Mason, author of Eagle in the Sky and Cutlass Empire, and Edward Harris Heth, author of If You Live Here and Any Number Can Play. Next week, the reviewing stand travels to St. Louis, center of one of the nation's greatest slum clearance projects. And there we'll ask, will the new housing bill clear our slums? Our participants who disagree about the method will be Arthur C. Dreffs, president of McQuay Norris Manufacturing Company of St. Louis, and former director of the National Association of Manufacturers, Austin E. Fitch, professor of architectural construction at Washington University, and Louis Lacoste, editor of the St. Louis Globe Democrat editorial page. So we invite you to listen next week, then, for Will the New Housing Bill Clear Our Slums? This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
