It is my privilege to open this third of a distinguished series of lectures on the social responsibility of management that the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance of New York University is offering as part of its 50th anniversary celebration. Those of you who attended the previous lectures of this series have heard the subject discussed by the social engineer, a prominent labor union official, and next week at this time Mr. William B. Given Jr., the president of the American Breakthrough and Foundry Company, will discuss the same problem from the viewpoint of management itself. Tonight, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly fortunate to hear the subject of the social responsibility of business, the social responsibility of management discussed by a professional economist who, in a number of respects, is better qualified to talk on this question than any other in the land. You all know that Dr. Norris was chosen from among all the economists of this country to head the Council of Economic Advisers when that body was created in 1946. You know the high hopes that were held in all quarters for what this Council could accomplish in solving the more knotty economic difficulties that do and will confront us in the future. And you know also how Dr. Norris met a great crisis. It has been said in this cynical age that the chief job of an office holder is to hold his job, hold his office, and exercise the power that it gives to the utmost. You know that when that same issue arose with Dr. Norris, the country was thrilled because he put principle above position and resigned from a job in which he felt that further functioning would only result in self-assertification. Dr. Norris is a native of the Empire State. Dr. Norris has spent most of his life in the academic field. In fact, his teaching career very nearly coincides with the 50 years history of the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance that we are celebrating tonight. Dr. Norris was an instructor in finance at the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce in 1909. And then he taught successively at the University of South Dakota, University of Arkansas, Iowa State College, and was finally called to that very distinguished institution, the Brookings Institution, to head its Institute of Economics. Dr. Norris was an instructor in the University of California, and the University of California, and was finally called to head the Council of Economic Advisors in 1946. Dr. Norris was an instructor in the University of California, and I'm sure you will want to listen to what he says with particular interest because today, after a very long effort, the President has found another incumbent of this Council of Economic Advisors to sit in the chair of which Dr. Norris graced for a time. Dr. Norris is a distinguished author and his books on agricultural economics, on America's capacity to produce, on price making in a democracy and other subjects, from other subjects, and the part of his ud纏 of the laboratory that he calls the legal knowledge in Era��릴 Edwin G Northeast. Dr. Norris is כ artifacts that he says while theaimer valuesimmerad terminations are still acknowledging that so seriously are still in the time and keep pulling our efforts from the go Ge course of the direction of the business. Dr. Aon Fran Warhol, the holiday credit is where he repetites established stirred at a very wide range of his interests at the very wide range of his interests and to the many fields in which he specialized. Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that I'm very glad to be with you tonight and to discuss with you this important theme of your symposium. I feel, as Dr. Bogan suggested, a good deal of kinship with you as a school for the training of business executives. Because I began my teaching career at the Horton School, I switched to agricultural economics for a time because of my belief that the same sort of realistic and analytical approaches to problems of business management needed to be developed, perhaps needed it more pressingly in the agricultural area. And I thought that such background as I'd got in the school of business could be carried over. But I was working in the general problem of price relations or the distributive side, our industrial organization and distributive arrangements. And so I never really changed career, but continued the same problem through a series of different settings. I hope that that did result in giving me a somewhat more rounded view of the nature of a total economy and of the problem of getting the several segments of the economy to understand, to get a fuller understanding of the part which they may play in the working out of a more prosperous, a better stabilized prosperity for our economy as a whole. And that was, of course, the keynote, the distinctive thing which was introduced in the Employment Act of 1946. But there was an attempt there to bring the professional approach to the study of the problems of the economy as a whole, to get an integration of policy based on a sound understanding of the interrelated functioning of the several parts. That is something which is congenial to my thinking and which I think you will see that I harp back on in discussing the particular topic that's assigned to me tonight. I was amused at the very dignified way in which Dr. Bogan described this problem of tenacity for office in Washington. In the vernacular there, you know, it's known as having glue in your pants. I fortunately didn't have that occupational disease. In fact, one very gracious introducer was presenting me to an audience and saying that my career was unique, that I was a unique individual in having preferred to stick by my principles than to continue. And I opened my rejoinder by saying he didn't know how unique I was because my resignation became effective just at the first pay period in which the salary of the office was increased. So I think I have my amateur standing fairly well established. I shall not take time visiting with you as I should so much enjoy because I want to present to you somewhat carefully in a prepared manuscript here the points which I think need to be emphasized as one part of the symposium which you are conducting. I feel that your program makers did very well in breaking down the topic of business management, social responsibilities into four parts and asking four men of different background, different training, and different associations to discuss the matter from their respective lines of approach. It's reasonable to suppose that you would get a clear difference of emphasis and attitude from the representatives of management and of labor, respectively. It would not seem to me anywhere near so clear that you would get a real difference between the other two speakers, one of whom is labeled economist and the other is labeled social engineer. I am prone to admit, if not to boast, that the economist is, in fact, an engineer. That is, a wealth engineer. Since economics is a social science, the economist might properly be called a social engineer. I put the matter thus in a recent paper before the American Philosophical Society. Economists are not in quest of ageless and timeless laws which will have universal applicability to a changeless subject matter like the solar or the cosmic system or like chemical elements and physical forces. We as economists must deal with the aspiring and the rebellious, the competitive and the cooperative, the sometimes patterned but often random phenomena of human minds and souls. Moreover, we meet these phenomena not in fixed or fully repetitive situations, but in the constant flux of evolving and often contradictory developments. Our profession, therefore, partakes of the nature of applied science or engineering. We seek to derive and apply generalizations valid for particular subject matter, limited as to both time and place. These understandings of that subject matter, such as they are, we apply like the engineer in the designing and adjusting of social machines, that is, institutions, through which alone these forces can work, be directed, and to some extent controlled. But the economist's task does not stop there. He undertakes to apply his progressively improving generalizations or principles to the devising of economic policies, public and private. These policies furnish the logical framework under which individuals and organized groups develop concrete programs and specific plans of action. such policies, programs, and plans seek most effective utilization of the fundamental economic forces to the ends of human life through mechanisms devised for their application. And I could there expatiate it, as I did in this other address, on the distinctive development of the Employment Act with its dual agencies, the Council of Economic Advisors and the Executive Office of the President and the Joint Committee of the Congress up on the Hill. The question I should try to answer in this symposium might, therefore, in the light of this background, be rephrased to read, what policies should management follow in our modern institutionalized business world in order to make business serve the social welfare most fully? At first glance, it might seem that the four papers in this symposium could be conceived as a series of concentric circles with social engineering as the outer and largest, or as a pyramid broadening through four successive stages, labor, management, economics, social engineering. In such a scheme, labor might define the responsibility of management most narrowly as merely paying proper wages and maintaining desirable working conditions. That is, labor of the old school might so define it, like John L. Lewis or the more old-fashioned craft unions of the AFL ranks. I comment later on the fact, having read, had a chance to see Mr. Ruttenberg's paper, that he represents a broader viewpoint, and you will see how that is related to my general presentation. But if that, the old school of thought had the narrowest interpretation from the labor point of view as merely paying proper wages, management's responsibility, merely to pay proper wages and maintain desirable working conditions. Management might define it somewhat more broadly as dealing equitably, not only with employees, but also with stockholders and with customers. The economist might define it still more broadly as securing not merely proper relations in the market, that is, the labor market, the commodity market, and the money market, but also as promoting the best allocation of resources. That's a pet economist's formulation. Best allocation of resources, national and worldwide, to productive use. The social engineer might state his requirements for good management in still more ambitious terms by saying that, besides good wage and price relationships, adequate provision of jobs, and efficient allocation of resources. It should achieve also certain social desiderata, such as conservation of human and natural resources, the promotion of personal liberties, and both peaceful and stimulative human relationships. Now, the thesis which I shall attempt to present to you is that these four criteria of responsibility are, in fact, the same, although stated with varying degrees of fullness. Specifically, the economist's view as to the social responsibilities of management should not be any more limited than that of the social engineer, because all these higher values that he talks about must be comprised within good economic policy, policy for the economy as a whole and in the permanent, the continuing things. Nor should it be any more inclusive, should the economist's statement be any more inclusive than that of management itself or of labor. They can't afford to be less inclusive. Stated from their side, it would mean that the interpretation of labor and management should not be any more narrowly technical or ex-party than that of the economist or even the social engineer, because they can thrive only out of a soundly, continuously, prosperous, well-adjusted economy. If the management, or as I prefer to phrase it, the administration, of our industrial process is to proceed on lines of greatest harmony and highest efficiency, it requires that from top to bottom, in organized labor, in professional management, in government relationships, in economic statesmanship, and in the social understanding and behavior of our people, it be infused with a broad spirit of solidarity as to the working relationships among private interest groups and between private and public forms of organizations in the economic sphere. And if I may say again, that seemed to me one of the greatest possibilities under the Employment Act of getting that kind of real liaison between the field of private enterprise and the area of government action. This was a major premise, this solidarity idea, was a major premise from which I started my analysis of managerial policy in my study of price-making in a democracy. May I quote a paragraph from myself? There is an underlying solidarity of interest among all parts of an economy and hence among all the participants in our business life. Such solidarity expresses itself as a common concern for maximum production. Particular firms in sheltered trades or in peculiar individual circumstances may for all practical purposes seem to lie outside or be able to ignore the principle of economic solidarity. They may pursue their own immediate advantage without regard to the wider repercussions on other companies or individuals or the remoter time effects of any managerial policy that they may see fit to follow. But as a fundamental principle for business seeking long-run profits for the majority of companies I see no escape from the proposition that they can make the largest ultimate gains from doing business in a society which is maintained on a high level of activity and low level costs attained through operative efficiency and that to the maintenance of such a condition the individual company must consciously undertake to make its own particular contribution. that its cut in the total product being determined on the basis of its productive contribution measured with as much scientific accuracy as possible. I know no method of statistical or theoretical proof that could be invoked to verify so elemental a proposition as this of economic solidarity. It seems to me to state the basic logic of a self-administered system. Now I pass to a section which I have called management's own concept of responsibility. It is notorious that the interpretation of the businessman's role prevalent in the earlier days of proprietary business did not recognize any such concept of economic solidarity nor did it follow policies and practices that would stem from such a concept. The phrase social responsibility was virtually unknown to their vocabulary. Let us turn therefore to the broader formulations of the working code of management that the best professional executives of modern corporate or institutional business give us. I shall quote a single one as being essentially typical of scores perhaps hundreds of similar statements which have become more or less current among the more enlightened class of business executives in recent years. This one happens to be from Lewis Brown the head of John's Manville. It was written just about 10 years ago as a matter of fact in a book called a symposium book called The New Outlook in Business. I quote from Mr. Brown In the evolution of a complex industrial society the social responsibility of management has broadened correspondingly. Management no longer represents as it once did merely the single interest of ownership. Increasingly it functions on the basis of a trusteeship which endeavors to maintain between four basic interlocking groups a proper balance of equity. Today the executive head of every business is accountable not only to his stockholders but to the members of his working organization to his customers and to the public. Decisions on industrial and economic policies which once were made solely from the standpoint of private interest and profit considerations must now be evaluated in terms of consequences. He doesn't say ethics or anything of that sort. He says in terms of consequences not merely to one individual company but to an entire industry of which the particular company may be a comparatively minor unit. That's the end of Mr. Lewis's comment. In this statement if this statement were expanded to include not merely the entire industry which is his phrase of which the particular company may be a minor unit but also the entire economy of which the industry is an integral part this executive statement of management's responsibility might seem to conform essentially to the concept of solidarity which I have myself proposed. In my judgment however the statement noble as it sounds is defective in that it retains the flavor of proprietary business in which the bosses conceived themselves to be and were in fact the arbiters of the business process. They thought it their unquestionable prerogative to decide what labor should have what the public should get in the matter of quality price and service and how great should be the reward of capital as the residual claimant. This was the benchmark of their calculations and this at his best and still evident in the trustee concept quoted above there is a fine baronial flavor generously tinctured with noblesse oblige. This is an aristocratic and ethical approach quite different from the democratic and scientific approach called for by the conditions of today and tomorrow. It really conceives of business as an end in itself and a vested interest rather than the means to an end. Since business managers quite generally accept Adam Smith as their prophet, it may be well to go back to recall his statement of their responsibility 175 years ago. Quoting from Adam Smith, consumption is the sole end and purpose of all production and the interest of the producer ought to be attended to only so far as it may be necessary for promoting that of the consumer. The maxim is so perfectly self-evident that it would be absurd to attempt to prove it. But in the mercantile system, the interest of the customer is almost constantly sacrificed to that of the producer, and it seems to consider production and not consumption as the ultimate end and object of all industry and commerce. That's the end of Adam Smith. End of his quotation. I don't think we've seen the end of Adam Smith. I think he's still pretty good stuff. The Employment Act of 1946 seems to me to be the best formulation we have yet had of this classic Smithian philosophy, brought down to date, given the prestige of public sanctions, and provided with public agencies for its effectuation. It preserves the system of private enterprise with only a minimum of government intervention. This is my interpretation of the Employment Act. I see they have a new interpreter we'll have tomorrow, so I'll still play this for what it's worth. In my judgment, it preserves the system of private enterprise with only a minimum of government intervention, which was basic in Adam Smith's philosophy. I shall therefore use the Employment Act freely as a vehicle for my economist interpretation of the responsibilities of management. I shall consider what kind of responsibility management would have to discharge if the social purposes enunciated in the Employment Act are to be adequately attained. In this, I do not presume to speak for economists generally, but simply as one economist who belongs to a certain school of thought, who has had a particular experience with today's business executives and labor union officials, and who has made certain explorations in the application of the Employment Act in practice. Public Law 304, the Employment Act of 46, is generally thought of as a full employment act, and there is a strong tendency to make the provision of jobs for all, or even more jobs than men, a responsibility that the citizen or the private worker can lay upon management or the government, or the two jointly, in our present political economic society. But as I understand the legislative history of the Employment Act, government responsibility for guarantee of jobs was definitely written out of it. In lieu thereof, the Act expressed an intention that the government should provide general institutional fiscal and monetary conditions under which private management would have the most favorable conditions for furnishing employment opportunities for those able, willing, and seeking to work. Although maximum employment is stated as one of the three prime objectives of the Act, it has always seemed to me incidental and to be implied in the goal maximum production. Maximum production, in turn, implies also production with the best of technology, the most adequate equipment, and the most efficient management. A mere number of jobs won't do it. In Adam Smith's definition, the goal of maximum purchasing power, set forth in the Act and interpreted as consumer real income, would be the prime objective to be sought, with maximum production as a necessary antecedent condition. You can't have, although some people don't seem to realize it, you can't have that maximum real purchasing power without maximum production. Since we have lived in an era of production economics rather than consumer economics during most of the time since Smith formulated his classic statement, I've been inclined to speak of maximum production as the prime goal of public and private policy under the Employment Act. That was developed at some extent in the third report of the Council. At the same time, however, I have stressed as I did in my previous work at Brooklyn, that the production process cannot be kept at its sustained maximum unless consumer real income is kept at a correspondingly high level. Or in other words, unless our system of mass distribution is geared with a high degree of perfection to our system of high efficiency mass production. In this setting then, I should say that from the standpoint of the economist as I interpret economics, the responsibility of the manager or administrator in our modern industrial society is to participate effectively in working out a set of distributive arrangements which will furnish incentive to capital, to labor, and to owners of natural resources. To put these factors freely at the disposal of the productive process. It is on the other side, his responsibility to participate in a pricing and promotional, or if you please, selling process, which will balance propensities to spend and propensities to save in such a way as to maintain a necessary but not cloying rate of capital formation and a hearty rate of consumption. But not one that would sap the strength of the productive organization itself. The responsibility of management in our modern industrial society is not something which can be considered by itself alone. In the statement just above, I have defined its responsibility of that as, as that of participating effectively in a process of making price and income adjustments. The other major participant in this private business process is organized labor. But there's also another, that is, a public side to the economic process. The joint participation of labor and management in price income adjustments must be related to the institutional, regulatory, and even that comment must be deferred. So I discuss next collective bargaining as management's responsibility to participate. First, a few words about the process of bilateral adjustment of price income relations between management and labor. This is what we know familiarly as collective bargaining. It began rather simply a small-scale bargaining about a wage rate and a relatively limited number of specific working conditions. It has now come to be national bargaining about practically everything included under pay, seniority, working conditions, health and accident benefits, and old age security. More than this, the techniques of operation and the policies of management relative to its pricing and investment program are increasingly brought under review, if not under actual negotiation, in the process of collective bargaining as it is now conducted. I said a moment ago that as an economist, I was not satisfied with the acceptance by management of a responsibility for making unilateral determinations covering the whole of the income price adjustment process. The implication of what I have said about management being merely one participant in that income price adjustment implies acceptance also of the idea of that organized labor that organized labor would be the other major participant. That's elementary, Dr. Watson. But it simply precipitates us into the tense and complicated issue of how far management has to abdicate sovereignty in these areas and on what issues and to what extent it is economically appropriate and helpful toward the achievement of stable relations to have the voice of labor heard in the making of bilateral agreements. They really are quadrilateral agreements since, in fact, labor speaks both for the worker and the consumer, and management speaks both for management in the professional sense and for owners and creditors. And this is not a question of whether labor is to enter into these relationships. Labor, even if you have nothing more than a strike, is in the process. Labor is in to a very considerable extent. The delicate question now is, if I may re-read that sentence, how far management could or should abdicate sovereignty in these areas, on what issues and to what extent it is economically appropriate and helpful toward the achievement of stable relations to have the voice of labor heard in the making of bilateral agreements? I shall not attempt to make any pontifical pronouncement on that issue of how far it should go, what its shortcomings and possibilities are. It is obvious from what I have already said that I believe that for the success of a private enterprise system in a land of freedom, this furnishes the method by which adjustment to changing conditions can best be worked out. But no formula for the myriad particular settlements that have to be tailored to special and changing local conditions can be offered. However, if I had time, I should like to go back to my presidential address some six or seven years ago at the American Economic Association, in which I elaborated that point, attacking the arrogance of the public policy-making philosophy, which is going about today, and saying that it is impossible, in my judgment, to formulate a blueprint of the common good, or the general good, or whatever it may be. I don't think that it adds up to anything of the sort. And the point which I made there was that it is really through deciding in particular alternatives of which possibility groups of laborers would they rather strike for what they can get out of a strike, or would they rather continue work even with conditions which are not satisfactory, entirely satisfactory to them, or more particularly to the heads of the union. I think that when the decision is taken away from the people whose fortunes are affected for good or ill by the result of that decision, then you have something which is essentially non-economic in its character. That's why I say no formula can be made in advance. The point I'm making is that the machinery has to be one which gets people back across the table where the several alternatives are actually considered, and the choices are made according to the preference of the people who really are going to have to live with the consequences. Enlightened management has gone a considerable distance toward meeting this responsibility. Today, business executives often feel that achievement of full success in this direction is impeded by unreasonableness or lack of understanding of functional requirements on the part of some laborers, leaders of labor groups, and by the power which they have acquired under present labor institutions to enforce their policies unilaterally upon management, regardless of how economically unworkable they may in fact be. That's why I talk of this process as being one which must rely on methods of science rather than on methods of brute force. Now this is the dilemma of socially responsible management at the present time. In areas where the market situation is basically competitive, such as textiles and clothing, as a considerable degree of success has been shown in relying upon bilateral collective bargaining in good faith as a means of arriving at intra-industry adjustment, which will permit productive operations to go forward without crippling interruptions. You could footnote that by the case of the settlement last fall when the textile workers decided that they would forego the settlement of their claims as the less attractive of the alternatives when the other one was less employment. In other words, they would go back to work, they would continue a contract, even though they were not satisfied with the thing, because when they had a chance to make the answer, they knew that that was the better of the alternatives, which was within practical reach at that time. And that, I say, comes where you have as competitive situations you have in Texas or clothing or some other industries. In the basic heavy industries, characterized by monopoly conditions on both the managerial and the union side, the irresistible force of union demands not infrequently meets the immovable body of industrial resistance and results in an impasse of truly alarming proportions. Our cold, steel, and auto strikes, of course, are the illustrations that immediately occur to your minds there. The point which seems to me significant is that in this situation, both parties in varying degrees show a tendency. When they come to that impasse, a tendency to accept, not to accept the implications of a free enterprise system, gradually perfecting methods of voluntary settlement along lines of economic sophistication, or, as I've said before, application of scientific method to economic adjustment, but they turn to the escapism of government intervention. This may take the forms of demand by management for labor legislation to put the unions in their place, that is, to use methods of repression rather than enlightening. Or, from the labor side, may be denunciation by labor of almost any legislation designed to curb their unilateral power as slave labor acts. It may take the form of public support measures or subsidies for a sick industry, and that's right on our table of discussion right now. It may even go so far as to accept nationalization, rather than yield to union participation in areas traditionally claimed as management's exclusive prerogative. I was quite amazed in a heavy industry a time back, when I was still chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors, that the head of a leadership company asked if I would drop in and see him when I was in New York, which I did. And he wanted to know what would happen if the impasse that existed there was allowed to go to the condition, the impasse in bargaining, go to the condition of actual strike. And I told him that in my judgment, that would be one more step toward a sequence of events which would lead to government intervention, which probably would not stop short of nationalization of that industry. And I was utterly amazed. Perhaps you didn't think I knew what I was talking about. But I was amazed as I watched the processes of his thinking, as revealed in action after that, to see that he decided in his managerial judgment that he was willing to allow the thing to come to a strike, which had that kind of a chain reaction, if my analysis was correct, in spite of the fact that the final settlement that the company made was only a very small distance away from the demands on which the break came. Now that is something for us to think about. Those of us who believe in the desirability of preserving a free enterprise system, or who believe that the step of nationalization in any of our basic industries is a fatal step from the system away from the system that we have known and cherished and prospered by to a different system. And I won't describe, I won't apply any adjectives to it. Just say different. I want to read that sentence back. It may go so far as to accept nationalization rather than yield to union participation in areas traditionally claimed as management's exclusive prerogative. But more inclusive and more insidious than any of the other manifestations of managerial escapism is the acceptance of the idea that government, through the aggregative approach of fiscal policy, can offset and overcome the industrial depressions or stagnation, which may come as the result of failure to bargain out workable income price adjustments in the area of the administered market. We're coming today to a better understanding of the constructive role that the fiscal and monetary activities of government play in conditioning both production, producers and consumers for the conduct of their market operation, and their conduct of their market operation. We are coming to a realization also that events have determined that the role played by the fiscal policies and programs of government will in future be significantly larger than in the past. I can't stop to elaborate that, but I think you see the point. But management would be dodging its own responsibility if it looks to government to maintain markets and jobs overall, even if management and labor fail to come to terms that combine job opportunities with market absorption in the myriad local situations where adjustment has to take place. There's always my contention while I was on the Council of Economic Advisors that we should not hold out to the public the idea that the government should or indeed could in a free economy supersede management in providing jobs and promoting high real income or maximum purchasing power for the consuming public. Fiscal policy, compensatory spending or whatever formula you use can be a helpful adjunct to private administration, but should not be looked to as a substitute for it. On the other hand, the proper tasks of fiscal policy can, in my judgment, be rendered quite impossible if private enterprise, managerial and union is not conducted in such a way as to make the innumerable fast-changing price, wage and other income adjustments such as to facilitate a well-nigh perfect balance between current production and consumptive operations. In other words, refusing to allow these struggles to come to an impasse. To understand the current shift in thinking about the responsibilities of management of labor and of government, respectively, for job opportunities and for consumer satisfactions, we need to see it in the perspective of antecedent developments. From far back in our industrial history, labor has been inclined to rely on the enterprising ability of management to push the volume or tempo of production operations ahead at about as rapid a rate as the development of technology and the availability of resources permitted. They had, however, taken a dim view as to the willingness of management to share the fruits of this expanding production with workers or with consumers in general. Union labor's philosophy, therefore, was largely to support the free enterprise system, to urge that it have great freedom to go ahead and exploit profit-making opportunities, whereupon, through union organization, we'll get ours. You probably, those of you who have known union labor at all, know how much that phrase has been used. You make the profits and we'll get ours. Management was disposed to accept the challenge, to be confident of its ability to provide jobs and to defend the profits they made against undue encroachments by labor. That, I think, is the process of collective bargaining as we've seen it. This complacent attitude on both sides was somewhat shaken by the threat of possible chronic stagnation aroused by the prolonged depression of the 30s. And that was a turning point in the economic life of this country, I believe. Labor became less confident that management under such institutional arrangements as had developed could or would furnish the full quota of jobs at advancing productivity, from which they could, by strong-arm bargaining, exact steadily advancing standards of living. Management, on its part, has displayed a less ebullient confidence in its ability to rebound promptly from every cyclical setback and to expand with the same spirit and vigor as that of our pioneering period. Up to that time, they'd always felt they could. They were not so much shaken as to their own ability to achieve technological and organizational triumphs as they were disposed to say that they were being prevented from making such successes. They complained that it was impossible for them to keep the business car from going in the ditch when labor was doing such persistent and unskillful backseat driving, or when they were, through the rigidities imposed by the regulatory, from the regulatory or from the taxation side, so severely handicapped in getting the car out of the ditch, readjusted, and back at a high rate of operation after such cyclical upsets. Thus, some managerial thinking seems more and more to be succumbing to the escapism of compensatory spending or other aggregate remedies for acute depressions or chronic stagnation. They are accepting, if not clamoring, for the market stimulus derived from deficit spending at the present time. Even while they make formal demands for a balanced budget, they are more or less receptive to government hospitalization or support appliances for the coal industry or any other which might be officially declared sick. They are not willing to accept out-and-out responsibility for harmonizing wage-cost-price relationships on which they can go ahead at reasonably full employment, which I would define roughly as a float of 5%, plus or minus 2. Now, my last, my closing section is called Reasoned Faith in Private Enterprise, The Basic Responsibility of Management. I would be naive indeed if I did not recognize the very serious difficulties that management confronts in discharging such a responsibility in the face of the conditions opposed upon them today by some features of union bargaining and federal legislation. But it is the proud boast of American management that it has both the vigor and the ingenuity to surmount difficulties, to detour every impediment that cannot be removed, to win by flank attack wherever a frontal attack is feuding. The major responsibility of management in these crucial days is to preserve free enterprise by demonstrating that business is self-sustaining, not dependent on government guarantees or periodic rescue operations. Great as are the difficulties loaded upon business management from the outside, there is a self-imposed difficulty which is of decisive significance at the present time. Moreover, it is one whose removal lies within the power and the responsibility of management. This self-imposed difficulty in the path of high-production private enterprise lies in the failure of executives in their fundamental thinking to accept confidently the practical attainability of the objectives of sustained high employment laid down in the Employment Act. They are still waiting for the big depression around the corner. If they insist on writing the wastes of depression into their cost sheets, they derive a pricing formula which does not permit a full market absorption at high-level employment. On such a basis, as soon as artificial inflation or monetary spending power is removed, volume will fall below the reasonable maximum. And if any of you are interested in a little development of that, I gave it in a talk at the Chamber of Commerce last week, which was printed in the Commercial Financial Chronicle. I haven't time to go into it here. It was a strong element in free enterprise under the proprietary form of business that job makers ventured boldly with their own capital. One aspect of the transition to large corporate enterprise under professional managers is the danger that these trustees, as they designate themselves, turn to defensive rather than offensive strategy at crucial stages in the business battle. In times of stress such as we are now entering, they are tempted to seek safety by refusing to venture out into the dangerous areas of expansion and competitive combat, which are demanded by a sustained full production economy. Labor is not the only segment of our economic life where the yen for security becomes a menace to economic achievement. Time permitted, I should like to develop the economics of the proposition that only by seizing the nettle danger can management rob it of its sting. Recent experience shows, as never before, the possibilities of prosperity with a high break-even point, but it requires the iron nerve of the racing driver on the saucer track. You have to keep going. To sum up, the economists speaking for the economy, demands of management, one, daring and making commitments equal to that of our business ancestors, two, technical competence and financial prudence in the operational area, including imaginative development and aggressive selling, and three, tolerance, frankness, and objectivity in dealing with labor as a partner. It is a basic responsibility of management in a system of free, high-production enterprise under free government to keep the settlement of economic issues within the process of voluntary group bargaining and to make these settlements on the basis of science, not brute force. If this is to be done, management must not drive labor to resort in desperation to government to secure for it a more favorable settlement than it can get by bargaining, well-informed and economically sophisticated on both sides. Nor will management be meeting its social responsibilities if it resorts to government ownership, to public utility treatment, and you see them flirting with that, or subsidy, or subsidy, or subsidy. And the other metal industries are now thinking that they ought to come in to the green pastures where the silver-producing industry has been so long, or that industry should come into the green pastures where the farmers have been. Nor will management be meeting its social responsibilities as if it resorts to government ownership, public utility treatment, or subsidy to protect its asset position, or to simplify its managerial task. Thank you. Dr. Norris' talk has been both thought-provoking and challenging. I am sure he has raised a number of questions in your minds. He has very kindly consented to answer questions that will be raised from the floor. Please. Please. Please. Please. We believe that the analogy to break it down and solve it into four parts could very well have considered one social responsibility of management and the point of view of government, how we can take the practical administration of all these various concepts. However, in view of that, I should like to ask Dr. Norris the following questions from the point of view of government. Do you think, Dr. Norris, that the administration, as a practical way of getting along, and in view of the present conditions of the Cold War, has embarked on the way of permanent inflation, that is, decreasing the value of past savings, so that the present production, so that the present producer should not have to carry too heavy a load of our past expenditures, and thereby create great stability in our present economy? I think your first observation is well taken, and that if they had expanded the program, and had a definitely representative of government as a fifth spokesman, I think that also would have attempted to round the thing out. Now, as to your second question, my life is an open book, and reading it, you will find the answer to the second question, yes, that I am deeply concerned about the course of government in its handling of this fiscal and monetary responsibility. I have said to various audiences, we may debate how far, under our pragmatic system, government should go in the number of borderline activities which touch the economic field. But from our Constitution down, there is no question that a prime responsibility, along with that defending against civil turmoil and foreign aggression, something of the sort, the other basic requirement which goes to the government, and which no one else can discharge, of that is furnishing the country with a sound and adequate currency. And it seems to me that it is, that is my concern at the present time, that it is a failure to meet that responsibility, that the great danger is presented, is presented from the governmental side to our economy. The only footnote I would add to that, is one that has been found in all my public remarks, is that this is a representative government. And in theory, if we really demand of our government, that it do give us a solvent, a sound currency system and a solvent finance, we can make it respond. But we are not doing it at the present time. I welcome additional questions. Yes, sir. I'd like to ask Dr. Norris, in his opinion, how has the objectives of the Employment Act of 1946 been effectively or ineffectively implemented today? The Employment Act was signed a little over four years ago. The agencies were set up somewhat less than four years ago. So I think that we should not expect that it accomplished the very large task which was laid upon it in that time. I feel, however, that I feel a very considerable degree of disappointment in the extent to which it has been, it has accomplished, or gone toward the accomplishing of those purposes. And without wishing to criticize anyone, I think it's already on the record that I feel that the reason for that is that policy has been at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue, on a level of horse trading or log railing politics, rather than responding to the purpose of that act of really availing ourselves of the economic know-how of the analytical powers of the economists and the ripe experience of business and labor and farm leaders to work out policies, which would be for the good of the good of the good of the good of the good of the good of the whole country, rather than be simply a scrap bag, a catch basin of particular policy or political expedience. I'm a realist. I know the difficulties of that. You can't purify it entirely. But it seems to me that the purpose enunciated in the act was that we would bring those agencies into the service of government and getting them in there, we would use them. Now, on the hill, we have a joint committee of the Congress. It could be a powerful agent in that same direction. It got off to a rather bad start. Then it improved. And you have now, in the membership of that committee, men like Senator Flanders and Senator Douglas and others who are very capable. But you have two difficulties there of making, of bringing the purposes of the Employment Act to fruition. One is that our legislative process is such a hectic sort of thing that it's extremely difficult to get a committee to withdraw into the analytical atmosphere of a joint committee on the economics of the thing and to make recommendations on the economic merits of the question and not follow the party line. Or, if they do that, to have them really influential in Congress. Now, the one time that I met with the joint committee was after a session was over and Taft was chairman of the committee at that time. And he asked us to come up. The three members of the council did go up. And Taft and Omani and Flanders and I think six out of the 14 were there, which itself is, one came in and just said that he just, he just made his appearance and said he had to go to political meeting uptown and excused himself. One of the six even. But, uh, uh, uh, Senator Taft was, he's experienced in this field and he was commenting on how difficult it was for them to, to get back. And I made this observation that, of course, they couldn't be a steering committee. The council, of course, had no administrative duties or responsibilities, purely deliberative. And that is true of the council, of the joint committee, too. They couldn't become a steering committee. I mean, they saw it. They are a new committee, injected into the old, old system of standing committees there. But it did seem to me that if they gave sufficient time to study economic statesmanship on the current issue, with that one objective that you would have an economic integration, they would say, now, do these policies pull off in opposite directions? Are we simply negativizing the effects and getting things into the jumble? Or what is the logic of fitting the several measures together? In other words, make the question of the economic welfare of the, of the whole country the touchstone. And if they would be brave enough to get up on all sorts of ex-party measures come from interest group committees, and criticize them, and discuss them, in that terms, in those terms, I think they could come to yield a very considerable influence. But that's, that's a tough thing. It'll take a lot more than four years. We'll have time for about two more questions. May I ask the man in the middle of the room to ask him? What is the answer to the fact that land-dark speculation is complex, expanding a little bit of problems in mind? Of land speculation? I'm not sure. Well, I think my answer to that would have to be very short, three words. I don't know. It's, it's, it's a problem. I'm not sure. I'd have to talk with you to see just what's in your mind and all. I may make one observation of it, that we have the, the moot question now, as to whether full employment, uh, presupposes an inflationary, a chronically inflationary, or a characteristically inflationary situation, and whether you can have a continuous, orderly, contained, managed system of inflation without us getting out of hand. Now, there are those who think that it can. My position happens to be that I don't think it can. And the question, uh, what would you suggest now as indicating a possible break of the thing getting out of hand? And I suggest land speculation as one of the areas in which that inflationary situation might get out of hand. I think that's a problem. I think that's a problem that's narrowly in the mass. How do you think that's a land where you think that you can do a piece of stuff, and how do you think that's a problem? So do you have any more problems to do your own way? Well, without having done my homework on the problem, I don't see how it would be helpful in the process. I see possibilities as being definitely harmful, but then the question of, uh, of what would be the character and the circumstances that brought speculation. At the present time, you don't have the, the ordinary, uh, unearned increment situation, but you have a, uh, land, uh, speculation developing as a hedge against inflation. I think it's a dangerous possibility. I think it's a very, very, very good question. I'm older than you think. Perhaps I might say I grew old fast in those three years and three months. I'd like to ask you to answer the question. The second one coming in on the line, can you be either obtained by something like something like something like something like lightning, enlightened, or otherwise? Well, as a believer in free enterprise, my answer would be yes. And when you put the word enlightened in, I'd say that is just the question which is before the country at the present time. Because our technological progress is very great. We have, at the present time, an artificial prop under our economy, and this was the theme of the, uh, of a talk that I gave the Economic Club here in New York in January, and one that I gave the Chamber of Commerce just the other day, that we have a problem. As you cut off this spending and get out of the deficit situation, then is when private management is put to the test of whether it can employ, at that high level of efficiency, and our mechanized, very progressive, highly productive system, but you can furnish jobs for all our people. I think it's possible. I think it is a great challenge for private management. you, of responsibleackedbright Federation, the political parties, that weよろしい jobs for all our people. Well, I think that the argument of my paper gives definitely the affirmative answer to that, that it is a participation in a process in which both parties have to be frank, objective, and economically sophisticated. And there are shortcomings on both sides at the price of time. It's easier for either one to say it's your shortcomings. You don't understand the new economics or you don't understand the old economics as the case may be. But I think you can't work out bilateral agreements of that sort, bilateral adjustments of that sort, certainly unless both parties are constant and frank and dealing with each other. Do you have to do one more? Oh, yeah. One more question. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so. I think so. I think so. Well, I think that is where the hope lies first in going farther toward settlement without coming to arbitration. And second, both sides abdicating a bit of their sovereignty to the point who say, as they would say, in economic matters as in judicial matters, we will gain more. We won't get what we want in a given case, what we think we might get by holding out. But in the long run, we will have less of the loss and waste, and we will get a settlement which appeals to properly chosen judicial or adjudicating agencies at this point. We will see how it works out. We will come back and take the next step later. But I would make two steps to it, you see. First, go farther toward the peaceful settlement before it comes to the impasse. But when it comes to the impasse, it is my feeling that the hope of this system will lie in accepting the principle of arbitration or adjudication. We have some of it. I think we should have more. One more question. Well, the position that I have taken on that is that it's perfectly easy to say the elimination of these taxes will give such a thrust in that area that business will go forward and you'll gain more than you lose. The figures that I can study and the analysis that I can get from the people who are interested in that don't convince me of the truth of it. Now, I think that the excise taxes are one of the important spots where tax reform should be applied as soon as is possible. One of the positions I have taken is this, that if you open the door to any change in your tax system, you will get a great rush of acceptance of the places where the cuts come. And in fact, the House already has joyfully responded to the present suggestion that we might do something toward lowering the excise tax burdens by cutting off a lot more than he suggested. Then when it comes to the other side, he suggested shifting the taxes, putting offsetting taxes someplace else, and I don't see any prospect of you getting very far there. So it is my suspicion that when we try to deal with the excise tax burden, which is burdensome, no question, there, that we will end up probably with another billion dollar reduction or something like that in our revenues. And my point is that such burdens as those excise taxes apply are less dangerous to the functioning of our economy than would be an added deficit put on top of the deficit that we will have anywhere. I think the dangers from having that national debt mounting at rates of six, seven, eight billion a year at this juncture, that the dangers of that are very much greater than the restrictive force of paying the taxes we have. Now, I wouldn't touch the tax system now, bad as I think it is. I know there are many other questions, but I wonder whether Dr. North, we should take advantage of the very youthful vigor of Dr. North, to which Mr. Graham referred. Would you want to join me now in expressing our deep appreciation to our speaker with a rising vote? Thank you. Thank you.