Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel here in New York City. Your city station brings you the proceedings of the New York Olympic Committee Governor's Dinner, which is being held to raise funds to send our Olympic team to Helsinki, Finland this summer. There are many notables present here this evening. Governor Thomas E. Dewey, who is to be the chief speaker, Mr. Lazarus Joseph, Admiral Halsey, Gustavus Kirby, President Emeritus of the United States Olympic Committee, and many, many others. And in just a moment to introduce the speakers for this evening's program, we'll hear the co-chairman of tonight's dinner committee, the Honorable Grover A. Whelan. As you can hear in the background, the police department band is playing. There is an extremely large audience here this evening. Gathered to participate in this dinner to raise funds to send our Olympic team to Finland. In just a moment, the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, will introduce the speakers for this evening's program. The speakers this evening will include Gustavus T. Kirby, who is President Emeritus of the United States Olympic Committee, the Honorable Lazarus Joseph, Comptroller of the City and Chairman of the New York Olympic Committee, and also Admiral William F. Halsey. The featured speaker, of course, as we mentioned before, will be the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York, and also Honorary Chairman of the New York Olympic Committee. The music in the background is being played by the members of the police band, directed by Lieutenant John McCartney. And earlier in this evening's program, here from the Grand Wallroom of the Daughter of Astoria Hotel, we heard selections by the police department fleet club, directed by Sergeant Edward Dilton. The Helsinki Olympic Stadium is situated in the midst of beautiful parks, almost in the center of the city of Helsinki itself. On the left of the stadium are the turf-covered football grounds. On the right is the recently-built swimming stadium, which normally seats 5,000 spectators, but will seat about 10,000 for the 1952 series of Olympic Games. The Olympic Stadium will seat 70,000 persons. It has a 250-foot tower, which dominates the newer part of Helsinki. The stadium is no more than a 20-minute walk from the center of the city. It was designed by two Finnish architects and includes an excellent center track around a turfed area. And now we hear the applause, and here is Grover Whalen. Your Excellency Admiral Halsey, Comptroller Joseph, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first night that I have been required, or will be required, to just read a number of notes. In the first place, I have been told that I must say this. The New York Olympic Committee is also sponsoring, and that's this gentleman over here, Larry Joseph. The final Olympic swimming tryouts at Astoria Pool. That isn't the correct name. It should be Bob Moses. On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. And at Flushing Meadows on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. The Olympic Carnival of Sports at the Triborough Stadium, a week from Sunday. And then they shall be received at City Hall on Monday, July 7th. Now, in addition to that, I've been told that, I have numbers on my cards here. Johnny Hayes, a famous Olympic story, deals with the marathon of 1908 in Italy. Collapsed near the finish line, was carried across the line. He was declared the winner. At first, but later disqualified, and in his place, the first man to complete the race, under his own power, was named Champion. Forty-four years have passed, and he still is the last American to have won the marathon. Johnny Hayes. Johnny Hayes. Now, a young man, called Irving Jaffe, New Yorkers never have been a match for other Americans at speed skating. skating. So it was something of a surprise in 1932 when a New Yorker, Irving Jaffe, became the first American ever to win an Olympic speed skating title. What's more, Irving won three Olympic championships, a feat never yet accomplished by any other man in the Winter Olympic, Irving Jaffe. You know, the next one I am very much afraid to announce and it says here, here's the only Brooklynite. You know where that is, Governor? Right there. And I haven't heard whether he's a Dodger or not, but nevertheless, ever to win an Olympic track championship, Charlie Bacon. He won the 400-meter hurdles at London in 1908. That's yesterday. Now, number four, many of you will recall that this gentleman is the former champion of the New York State Athletic Commission. But tonight, he's to be known here as the Olympic lightweight boxing champion of... Heavyweight? What do you know about it? I fought him. He fought him. The control... Light heavyweight boxing champion of 1920, Colonel Eddie Egan. Thank you. Now, the card says number five, in the olden days, the sport of walking was as popular as the horse and buggy. In recent years, competitive walking was just about to vanish from view when along came a young man who sets new records every time he sets heel and toe on the track. I'm glad he did that. He's leaving for Helsinki soon to represent our country in the Olympic Games. Harry Lastu. Now the next one is a person that only the governor, who is very old, and the controller who is older than the governor, can remember it. I am a young child and never heard of it before. Gertrude Ednerly. She was the first woman to swim the English Channel. And it's a great pleasure to see her here tonight and to see her looking so well. I remember, Governor, may I say this? When you were a young man. When I was a child. Gertrude. Gertrude arrived down the bay. And, uh... Stop that. Don't be talking. But she arrived down the bay and on a very unusual occasion, she was brought up to, uh... The place called, uh... City Hall. We had a police commissioner at that time who didn't believe that there should be any protection at all for great celebrities. But this gal just blocked traffic from the city hall, from the battery, right up to the city hall. And, believe it or not, we had to, for the first time, close the iron gates of city hall to keep the people out. And that was the salute that Gertrude Ednerly received from our fellow citizens of New York. Well, we have a fellow by the name of Buster. I don't know what his last name is. In 1932, only one American swimmer won a championship. Gee, we were terrible. In all the... In all the other events, Uncle Sam's Uh... Boys Tasted Defeat. Now, Admiral, you listen to this. No. Our only winner, a handsome young man, became famous later as a moving picture star. Today, he's enjoying a bright career as a television show. Buster Crabby. There's a place called Yale. I don't know where that is, but it's up there in New Haven somewhere, isn't it, Governor? I didn't go there. Yeah, the governor didn't go there, so he can't give me the directions. Yale, through the years, has had many pole vault champions. But in 1920, the university was represented, represented, rather, by a young man who won the Olympic championship in the high jump. He is Dick Landon. But Dick didn't return from Antwerp with an Olympic title alone. Now, Dick, get up and stand up. He also brought home a bride. Pick up, will you? His bride was an Olympic champion also. A member of the Olympic swimming team in 1920, and in 1928, she was official chaperone of the women's Olympic swimming team. Mrs. Alice Laude Landon. Now, just a minute. I'm not finished. There's the number one romance of the Olympic Games, and just the other day, the Landons celebrated the arrival of their second grandchild, Mr. and Mrs. Riches Landon. Thank you. Of course, I've lost my program now. But the only other person I remember very well is the President Emeritus of the Olympic Games, Gustav Kirby, who knows more about the athletics and the great things that have been accomplished by the youth of America. And it's a great privilege for me to introduce the President Emeritus of the Olympic National Committee, Gustav Kirby. Thank you. Your Excellency, Your Royal Highness the Comptroller of the City of New York, and my old friend Grover. And most important of all, far more important than any of us, my fellow Olympians, some of whom have been presented to you and many more of whom are here. Yes, the Olympic Games are great. You look at the cover of your program and you will find five circles. I wonder if you all know what those five circles mean. They mean the five continents and the colors in them are the colors you will find in some one of the flags of the nations of the world. So that at once you see that these five intertwined circles are indicative of what the Olympic Games are really for. And if you turn into the program you will find the important thing in the Olympic Games is not running but taking part. The essential thing in life is not conquering but fighting well. That is the motive, that is the reason for the Olympic Games. Not merely to win but to do your best. And that's what we've always done. Come with me if you will to Helsinki a couple of weeks from now when we open the Olympic Games. You will find gathered there in the stadium which those brave Finns have built and rebuilt the elite of the world. Governors from all far and wide, north, south, east and west. You will find thousands and hundreds of thousands of people. And the games will be opened by the singing of the way those Finns can sing. And they can sing, you know that. And then into the stadium will come the marching of the athletes of the world. They will be led by Greece because as you all know the Games was started in 1896 in Athens, Greece. And the last one to come in will be the Finns because they are the host nation. We will come in behind the American flag. The other nations will come in behind their flags. And the music of their countries will be played as they march. We'll march around saluting those in the royal box or the box of the president, whoever it may be. And then we'll line up. And then what happens? A representative of each nation comes forward and listens to the representative of Finland. And they all raise their hands and they give, they swear, that they are of the nations they represent. That they are amateur. That they are taking part in sport for sport's sake. That's the big thing of the Games. They are taking part in the Games for sport's sake. And then the cannons will boom. And pigeons will be released. Flying north, south, east and west. Indicative of the spirit of the Games which is to spread goodwill throughout the world. Not merely to win. Not merely to compete. But to spread goodwill. Because the Olympic Games are to the end. That we may substitute for the bloody and futile field of war. The strenuous but peaceful field of athletics. That's what we go for. To endeavor to cement and bring together the nations of the world in friendly combat. Not in bloody war. And it's very, very significant that this year these Games are being held right under the iron gate. The iron fence, as you may call it, of Russia. There's no distance at all. In point of fact, I'm informed that the Russian team, instead of living in the Olympic village, which they should live in, will be flown to and fro every year. I suppose it's to the end that they may not be contaminated by us of other countries. But be that as it may, that is the way the Games are done. And the Games are to bring about and substitute for the bloody field of battle the strenuous but peaceful field of athletic supremacy. You here, I look around you fellow Olympians, and you have all helped. You've all helped to sow the seeds, which means for a better world, a happier world, a more peaceful world. One where we get along together. Not fighting, not vindictive, but with a spirit of give and take. A spirit of doing our best for sports sake. But of helping that everybody will come along and be our friends and not our foes. Finland is a wonderful little country. Some of you have been there. I have. And I'm looking forward eagerly to being there three weeks from now, two weeks from now, for the Games. Well, why are they so wonderful? Because they're always threatened by Russia right at their door. And Russia could just walk over them if they will. But Russia is not only a great nation, but it's a very vindictive nation. I remember well in 1912 at Stockholm, when the Finns were all lined up ready to march behind their flag, and Russia said, no, Finland is not a country with its own flag. Finland must march behind the flag of Russia. Finland didn't do it. Thank God they were, for the Swedes were courageous enough to say that the Finns would march behind their own flag and their victories would be indicated by hoisting their flag to the masthead, as they indicate by our victories by hoisting our American flag to the masthead. Now, this is a grand thing. And we'll never forget it. The main object of the game is not merely to win. The main object of the game is to spread throughout the world peace and goodwill. Now, if Finland, under the thumb, you might say, of Russia can do that, we of the United States and all the countries of the world should be able to do it. So I said the other day to the Finnish gathering, Finland is so much like the United States. I remember reading, because I wasn't there, I was too young, I don't think I was even born there, in the Revolutionary War, when Patrick Henry said, give me liberty or give me death. And that is just what Finland has said to Russia. They must have their liberty. They'll fight to the last man for the liberty. But they want to be friendly afterwards. They want to bring about goodwill, just the same as we here are friendly with England. But when the Revolutionary War was here, we weren't any too friendly. I remember well that flag of the northern states, which had a rattlesnake on it, don't tread on me. That's Finland and that's the United States. So we're going to a country, a little country, we, the great big United States, are going to a little country that has the same ideas, the same ideas, the highest standards, the moral force of the United States of America. We here, Excellency, these athletes that you see, most of whom I've seen perform, and their fellows that are following after them will perform, are messengers of peace, not merely messengers to win, but messengers of peace and goodwill. God help that we have the strength, that we have the courage, that we have the ability to spread this gospel, because with it the world will sooner or later become one. Without it we'll be lost in nothing but bloody battles, futile, and of no account whatever. So I say to you as President Emeritus of the United States Olympic Association, United States Olympic Committee, that you have gathered around here, Governor, and the great people who are up here, the best that we have, men and girls, men and women, who are courageous, who are able, but who want to play a friendly game, a game of cooperation, of coordination, a game where we'll have peace and goodwill throughout the world. That's what we're for. That's what we're going to accomplish. And with our help, and with the help of God, we will come back with victories, but we'll come back leaving friends with us, behind us, and having friends there with us. Thank you very much for listening to my few words. Thank you, Mr. President. When the mayor announced that the chairman of the New York City Olympic Committee would be Larry Josephs, everybody wanted to know, well, he knows a lot about dollars, a few things about cents, you know, dollars and cents. And they wanted to know why he was made the chairman of the New York City Olympic Committee. And I've had a terrific investigation take place to find out why he was named. And I found out that he was not a football player. His wife told me that. But that he was a basketball player, and what a basketball player. And the other day down at City Hall, he made one of the most intellectual speeches as far as athletics are concerned and finances. And he wrapped them all together very courageously. And finally, he came through with telling about what he did before he married his beautiful wife. He's a great pleasure for me to present to you Larry Josephs, the Comptroller of the City of New York and the Chairman of the New York City Committee, Olympic Committee. Larry Josephs. Chairman, Governor, distinguished guests, Admiral Halsey, Kirby, Jerry Mahoney, you've heard a lot of talk tonight about the athletes present. We have others involved here who are champions in their own right, for instance, Grover Whalen. Grover Whalen is the best smelling citizen in the city of New York. And while I appreciate, Governor, that you are the number one citizen of the state of New York, we still have the right of free speech. The Governor was quite an athlete himself. He ran quite a few races himself. I, myself, did very little, as far as New York City Olympic Committee is concerned. But we had a very able staff. Colonel Henschel, Waller Brown, Ray Deering, Dick Maher, Kirby, and a few others. And I personally, Governor, desire to express my appreciation to you for the aid and cooperation you gave us on this drive. A lot of medals have been handed out. There's one person in this room who's entitled to a larger medal that was ever given to any Olympic champion. Any woman that could live with me for 33 years is entitled to a medal, and that's Mrs. Joseph. My athletic career goes back many, many years ago when I was a kid on the East Side. I began playing basketball in the Education Alliance. Then in the parks, Tompkins Square Park, PS number two. And I played for the High School of Commerce, and then I played for NYU. Then I did some other things that I don't care to mention, Governor. The Statute is a bar. The Statute is a bar, is that correct, Governor? And after I got through playing for NYU, I played for the 92nd Street YMHA. And we had a chap that was the manager of the team. We were purely amateurs at the time, but we used to play in Philadelphia, New Haven, other places not too distant. And he was a great businessman. We'd get about $10 for making the trip. The members of the team would receive an ice cream soda. The rest of the money found its way into the pockets of Colonel Henschel. And that's how the Bull of a Watch Company was started. Grover, let me call your attention a couple of forgivable mistakes that you made. He takes a guy that's 210 pounds and calls him the lightweight champion. And he tells you that Johnny Hayes collapsed. Johnny Hayes didn't collapse. Johnny Hayes won it. Johnny Hayes went across the line on his own power and his own steam. I don't know whether you know it, Governor, but we decided to hold a, in conjunction with the aquatic meet, a one-meter dash for the members of the Board of Estimate and an invitation, and an invitation to the state. And an invitation is being extended to you. When I found out that a meter is, how far is it? 40 inches, I decided it was too far. So, Governor, I present you with the championship of that particular event. You don't even have to go into it. Gus Kirby, this young chap that you heard a few minutes ago, told you about the great deeds that were performed by our end. This year is a significant year. We are picking and have picked some of our representatives. They are chosen on ability alone and nothing else. Race, creed, and color means nothing. And as a matter of fact, it doesn't make any difference whether they're Democrats or Republicans. We are sending out to Helsinki one of the finest representative groups of men and women to ever represent the United States. And while it's true, as Gus said, that we would like to win, we have an important mission in this particular Olympic event. We want the boys and the girls of the other countries to see with their own eyes the type of youngsters that we have in this country who are brought up under our democratic principles and ideals. They can get first-hand information of what America means and what our ideology is. So regardless of whether we win, lose, or draw, they can take home to their respective countries, in my opinion, a fine picture, a mental picture of the type of boys and girls that we have in this country. And in my opinion, that's tremendously more important whether we win or lose. So you ladies and gentlemen who are here tonight, who are playing an important role in this coming event, are entitled to the plaudits and the credit of all who are affiliated with this drive. And as the chairman of the New York City Committee, may I extend to all of you my deepest and most sincere thanks for your efforts on behalf of the great Olympic Committee. We need every dollar we can get. Because if we fail to get the money that we need, some poor boy or girl who has striven so hard to get on this team might have to be dropped. And we continue our drive right down to the last day. And I know that with your continued cooperation and help, that we cannot fail in this drive. So thanks again. And I know that our boys and girls will give a very fine accounting of themselves when they go to health center. Thank you very much. You know, I thought Larry knew everything in the world, but apparently he doesn't. Ah, I skipped a line, Harry, uh, Larry. Let me read this again to you. A famous Olympic story deals with the marathon of 1908 when Delando of Italy collapsed. I... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...