This is Bob DeVoglio speaking from the aircraft carrier Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I'd like to take this opportunity to wish my mother and father, Mrs. Joseph M. DeVoglio, of 1156 East 87th Street, a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. Also to my college chum, Bill Cooper, and my girl, Dolores Halen. And speaking to the Antietam's officers and crew, I want to wish everyone, even the city, a very Merry Christmas. Gee, Mom, I sure wish I could be there today. This is William Halen speaking from the aircraft carrier Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my wife, Mrs. Sonia Halen, and my two little children, Randy and Sandra, a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And speaking for the Antietam's officers and crew, I want to wish everyone in Flatbush, Brooklyn, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I also wish to tell my folks that I'll be there morally, spiritually, and mentally, but can't make it physically this year. Hello, New York. This is John Rogers speaking from the aircraft carrier USS Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my wife, Mrs. Marilyn Rogers, of 3758 10th Avenue, New York, and my mother, Mrs. Jenny Curl, of number one Jackson Avenue, Bronx, New York, a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And speaking for the Antietam's officers and crew, I want to wish everyone in New York a very Merry Christmas. A Merry Merry Christmas and I wish I could be there in body this year. This is James W. Johnston of Brooklyn, New York speaking. I'm aboard the aircraft carrier USS Antietam in Korean waters. I want to wish my wife, Mrs. Agnes Johnston, and family of 1879 Brown Street, Brooklyn, New York, a very Merry Christmas. I would also like to extend for myself and many others here with me today a Merry Christmas to all in the city of New York. This is Joan Attali aboard the aircraft carrier USS Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I would like to wish my mom and pop, Mr. and Mrs. William Attali of 168 Bay 25th Street, Brooklyn, New York, and also my girl, Miss Terri Spiragno, and her family of 5211 19th Avenue, also of Brooklyn, a very Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. On behalf of the officers and crew, we wish you all in New York a happy holiday. We sure wish we could be with you. This is Ray Hordak, the aircraft carrier USS Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I want to wish my mom and pop, Mr. and Mrs. C. Hordak, 1241 Wheeler Avenue, Bronx, New York, a Merry Christmas and a joyous Happy New Year. Happy New Year. On behalf of the officers and men of the USS Antietam, we also want to express our greetings to good old New York. A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to all. I wish I was there with you. This is Irving Cantwitz speaking from the aircraft carrier Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my mother, Mrs. Bessie Cantwitz of 900 Eastern Parkway, and my dear girlfriend, Rita Prusen of 939 Sterling Place, a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And speaking for the Antietam's officers and crew, I want to wish everyone in Brooklyn a Merry Christmas. Hi, I want to wish everyone in Brooklyn. I want to wish everyone in Brooklyn a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I wish I could be there to spend the holiday season with you. Speaking for the officers and crew, I wish the people in Brooklyn a Merry Christmas and a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. This is Robert Schmidt speaking from the aircraft carrier Antietam off the east coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my wife, Jo, and sons Gregory and Robert, a 1447 Dayhill Road, Brooklyn, New York, a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And speaking for the Antietam's officers and crew, I want to wish everyone in Brooklyn a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I want to wish everyone in Brooklyn a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I sure wish I could be there with you today. Hello, Staten Island. This is Jack Dunn speaking to you from the aircraft carrier USS Antietam off the coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my wife, Mrs. Elizabeth T. Dunn, and Timothy Dunn, and also Susan Dunn, a Merry Merry Christmas and also a Happy New Year. And also a Happy New Year. And on behalf of the officers and men of the Antietam, I wish to say a Merry Christmas to the whole city of Staten Island. And I love you, hon. This is Lou Nemeth speaking from the aircraft carrier Antietam off the coast of Korea. I'd like to wish my wife, Elizabeth Nemeth and Barbara Jean, a very, of 5622 204th Street, Bayside Long Island, a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. And speaking for the Antietam officers and crew, I want to wish everyone in Bayside a Merry Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I wish I could be with you, Al.