Lena白 Thank you. The invocation will now be pronounced by the Right Reverend Monsignor Edward J. Watterson, Secretary of Education, the Archdiocese of New York, and the personal representative for this occasion of His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellberg, Archbishop of New York. Thank you. Almighty God, we place ourselves in thy presence here gathered to inaugurate a new, and with thy blessing we confidently trust, an illustrious phase of the history of this college. In thy presence, we recall with gratitude that the City College, in its founding, was motivated by the generous impulse and noble purpose of those who conceived and established it. Individually inadequate to the task, they united their sacrifices to achieve for their sons the advantage of higher learning, which was beyond their economic capacity, which inhibitions of race, creed, color, or national origin might have kept beyond their reach. And thus, they secured for city and nation the rich productivity that sound educative process can confer on high and responsive talent. Bless, then, bless, that they may fulfill the hopes that inspired its inception and progress by availing themselves fully of its rich opportunities, so that having successfully pursued the true and the good, they may emerge from the quest, men and women mellowed by wisdom and firm in those basic and universal convictions, that they may always see the students without which democracy cannot survive nor civilization endure. Bless the faculty of the City College that they may always see the student as the focal point of their academic prestige, their accumulated knowledge, and their educational experience, that they may respect always his individuality and reverence with habitual awe the inviolable dignity and limitless value with which thou, Almighty God, with which thou, Almighty God, hast distinguished each human being, emerged from the ineffable artistry of thy creative hand. Bless the faculty that their minds may ever be equal to their unique responsibilities by their sure grasp of truth, which alone is the proper object of the intellect and sole norm of beneficent volition. Only truth is reality, and thou, O God, art its source and guarantor, to which the Old Testament gives testimony in ageless words, the heavens show forth the glory of God, and the firmament declareth the work of his hands. Bless Almighty God, the new president of the City College, in whose selection from outside our midst has been operative, the aspiration implicit in the purpose of the founders, that the sound direction of the education of their sons be assured by wide experience, proven capacity of understanding, and unassailable integrity. May his sound leadership commend itself to faculty and students so that the great potentialities of this college may be fully activated to the end that its total salutary influence, under the direction of its president, may operate to the advancement, intellectual, spiritual, and physical, of each student, and that the city and nation may be culturally enriched, morally strengthened, and materially benefited in the contribution made to them by those who will have been students of the City College during this new presidency. May this esteemed president be guided always for his personal peace and his public trust by that declaration of divine wisdom recorded in the New Testament. You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Thank you. Thank you. I call upon you to rise at the first note of the National Anthem. Thank you. the college national anthem in the National Anthem. The National Anthem. Oh, heav'n, was moved — that generally was moved to remote pracked from an festival in the New Testament. CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS Mr. Mayor, members of the faculty, and my colleagues on the board of higher education, ladies and gentlemen, over 100 years ago, the people of the city of New York who represented the coming together the people of the city of New York the people of the city of New York and on these occasions we have from time to time been honored with the presence of the chief magistrate of the city of New York as we are honored today and as we look about the expanding area which this great college is now moving into as we look at the blueprints of the new buildings that are to go up to the south of us and in connection with the public library we realize that under his leadership leadership of the present chief magistrate of the city of New York ways and means have been found notwithstanding the financial stringencies of the city to continue to make this great institution the crown of the city of New York and therefore it is with great pride that I give you is excellently the mayor of the city of New York the honorable Vincent R. Impeletari now Mayor Impeletari is coming to the microphone and he will speak to us Mr. Tuttle Dr. Teague Dr. Gallagher Reverend Clergy members of the Board of Higher Education distinguished guests ladies and gentlemen this college was founded on faith faith and democratic education those who struggled 106 years ago under the imaginative and inspiring leadership of that great American Townsend Harris to establish the Free Academy which later became the College of the City of New York realized the great importance of free public education for the preservation of our democratic institutions this college located in a great and still growing metropolis serving a population drawn from nearly every part of the globe representing different races and different creeds is in and of itself a noble expression of the democratic way of life it has made rich contributions to the city to the state and to the nation from these halls have come many outstanding Americans to name one or two in my judgment would be inappropriate because there's altogether too many and by mentioning one or two I'm positive that I would leave out hundreds of others who belong in exactly the same category the city college of the city of New York is indeed one of the leading institutions of higher learning in the entire United States together with its sister colleges Hunter Brooklyn and Queens it forms the apex of one of the world's largest systems of free public education to be chosen president of the city college is both a signal honor and a real challenge I congratulate you Dr. Gallagher on the opportunities which will be yours of guiding the destinies of your splendid faculty and of your student body I realize however that your burdens will be heavy your responsibilities great ours is not an easy age in which to live many difficult problems assail us perhaps but perhaps one of the most critical is the survival of our free institutions our schools our colleges and our universities must lead the way theirs is the job of providing an enlightened and a responsible citizenry city college has contributed mightily towards this end and I am confident that it will contribute even more I need hardly remind you ladies and gentlemen that the city of New York has given tangible proof of its interest in expanding the facilities for free higher education in our city the purchase of the Manhattan built property and the projected library and technology buildings should provide some relief from the congested conditions prevailing at this institution in this connection I am happy to note the splendid loyalty of your alumni in raising funds for the student center the establishment of the Bronx Hunter Co-educational College and the improvement of facilities at Brooklyn and Queens are other indications that the city of New York is not standing still all this is an investment in the future of our youth that they may be better prepared to face the problems of our age yet in recognizing the responsibility of providing higher education for those who cannot afford to attend private colleges or universities we face the cold facts of mounting costs and an increasing population while financial ability will necessarily determine the extent to which we can seek to expand and to improve our educational facilities every effort will be made to meet the needs of the future it remains a source of pride to our citizens that the city colleges have maintained their high scholastic standards and earned an enviable place among the colleges and universities of this country here at city college you have successfully combined the practical and the theoretical and trained your students for service in many fields it is my sincere hope that you will find still greater opportunities ahead of you and that you will continue to be guided by the vision which inspired Townsend Harris more than a century ago I feel certain Dr. Gallagher that you will find your new position both a rewarding experience and a real challenge applause for the reading of the scriptures I have the honor to present the reverend Dr. Henry P. Van Dusen president of Union Theological Seminary Dr. Van Dusen The scripture reading is taken from the book of Job a part of the 28th chapter And where shall wisdom be found and where is the place of understanding man does not know the way to it and it is not found in the land of the living the deep says it is not in me and the sea says it is not with me it cannot be gotten for gold and silver cannot be weighed as its price whence then comes wisdom and where is the place of understanding it is hid from the eyes of all living and concealed from the birds of the air Abaddon and death say we have heard a rumor of it with our ears God understands the way to it and he knows its place for he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens when he gave to the wind its wake and meted out the waters by measure when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder then he saw it and declared it he established it and searched it out and he said to man behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom and to depart from evil is understanding here endeth the lesson this scripture reading makes a very happy background for the address which is now about to be made a subject Dr. Gallagher as you know comes to the city college from his former post as assistant United States commissioner of education especially in charge of the field of higher education throughout the United States it is peculiarly fitting that his former chief should be here to help us welcome Dr. Gallagher to the elevation into which we are now about to inaugurate him. The Honorable Earl James McGrath has been a specialist in higher education and in public service in this country and throughout the world for several decades as the following few examples from the long list of educational and governmental organizations with which he has been associated will illustrate. I shall indulge my desire to name a few. More would embarrass him. War Man Power Commission, Federal Security Agency, U.S. National Commission for UNESCO, Fulvite Board of Foreign Scholarships, the President's Commission on Higher Education, U.S. Delegate to the General UNESCO Conference in Paris in 1949. And I could go on and mention 20 other comparable with those services in public service of the most outstanding character. As well, he is a distinguished author of many books and writings in this field. I have the honor to present the Honorable Earl James McGrath, United States Commissioner of Education. Deputy Chair of Education, United States Engineering, U.S. Governors of Education, U.S. University Medical Esonds, U.S. University Director, U.S. Чтоуч Dr. Tuttle, Mayor Impeletere, Dr. Gallagher, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. One of the most significant and enduring traits of our national character is the high degree of confidence which we as a people have traditionally placed in education. The founding fathers of this nation were keenly aware that the well-being of a democracy depends fundamentally upon the enlightenment of its citizens. Colonial statesmen recognizing this important relationship between education and a free society strongly advocated the general dissemination of knowledge among the citizenry. Our first president, in commenting on the relationship between education and political maturity, offered this wise injunction, which is as applicable today as it was some 160 years ago. Promote then, said President Washington, as an object of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge. In proportion, as the structure of a government gives force to public opinion, it is essential that public opinion should be enlightened. Thomas Jefferson expressed the same thought in his observation that a healthy democratic society requires a system of general instruction which shall reach every description of our citizens from the richest to the poorest. Few Americans would today dispute the essential soundness of this view. Its practical results can be observed from the earliest days of the republic to the present. As the American educational system is developed, the opportunity for education has been extended to an ever-increasing number of American youth. Today, almost all children who are physically and mentally fit complete an elementary education, and 80% of those of the appropriate ages are in high school. One in five attend some kind of institution of higher education. The median number of years of school completed in the group 25 to 29 years of age is 12.1, the equivalent of high school graduation. These are comforting figures supplying as they do, quantitative evidence of the flowering of the greatest experiment in mass education the world has ever seen. It would be easy and altogether pleasant. I assure you, if I could join with you in drawing from them the comfortable conclusion that the idealistic objective of the founding fathers, namely, the proper education of all our young people for the responsibilities of citizenship, has now been definitively achieved. Tandor forbid such a statement. Let us examine for a moment some of the reasons why. It must be recognized at the outset that during the period in which our unique American educational system was evolving, the rest of our social order was hardly standing in status quo. The past 150 years, and particularly the period since 1900, have witnessed at times a bewildering succession of social developments, which have resulted in making American life infinitely more complex than it was earlier in our history. The relatively simple life of rural, more or less self-contained communities has become complex, even for those who continue to live on the farm. And for the majority of our citizens who now live in urban areas, life is even further complicated. Developments in science, technology, health, medicine, international affairs, the organization of private industry, the relations between individuals and their government, all these factors and the multitude of others, have increased tremendously the need for knowledge and understanding among our people. The apparent improvement in our general level of education must therefore be weighed in the light of the constantly increasing need for additional education. But demands for other types of education and training, hitherto not offered at all, have also risen. Many types of specialized and technical training designed to prepare young people for specific jobs in industry and commerce, have been introduced. Under the impact of these forces, the liberal arts college program of some years ago, composed of a common body of subject matter in a few closely related disciplines, now includes dozens if not hundreds of courses of a semi-professional or technical character. Too often the result of this multiplication of courses is that many young people leave these institutions more adequately prepared to make a good living than a good life. In too many cases, our students have learned only an impressive body of technical information or mastered a set of highly specialized professional skills. They can make anything from sewing machines to skyscrapers. They can fly around the world in three days or destroy thousands of human lives in three seconds. But with the persistent problems of humanity which surround them, they are less well equipped to cope. And unfortunately, many seem little interested in such matters, except when an atomic bomb temporarily shakes their faith in techniques and troubles their conscience about the basic problems of life. They have gained too little in wisdom. They do not understand the world around them, nor do they possess the broad knowledge needed to help in solving its major problems. At least equally influential in shifting the emphasis in our institutions of higher education to highly technical and specialized curricula have been the activities of the scholars themselves. In the early days of this nation, those who progressed beyond the lower grades came into contact with a generally recognized corpus of traditional learning. These intellectual experiences provided a common ground upon which educated men could meet and discuss the problems of their day. Since the late 19th century, however, scholars have typically been concerned with narrower and narrower intellectual pursuits. Knowledge has been broken into smaller and smaller pieces. Institutions of higher education, particularly universities, have increasingly been concerned with the training of specialists in the various subject matter areas, which by a form of mitosis have increased in number until the half dozen major departments of a few decades ago have now risen to 75 or 100. This endless splitting up of the traditional areas of knowledge has resulted in a steady fragmentation of the educational experiences of students, even in the liberal arts colleges, the institutions whose overriding purpose should be better education of young men and women for their common responsibilities of citizenship. I think it is very significant that as long ago as 1867, a man of remarkable foresight and depth of perception, John Stuart Mill, in his own inaugural address at St. Andrews, commented prophetically on the dangers inherent in these developments. He said, Every department of knowledge becomes so loaded with details that one who endeavors to know it with minute accuracy must confine himself to a smaller and smaller portion of the whole. Every science and art must be cut up into subdivisions until each man's portion, the district which he thoroughly knows, bears about the same ratio to the whole range of useful knowledge that the art of putting on a pin's head does to the field of human industry. Now, if in order to know that little completely, it is necessary to remain wholly ignorant of all the rest, what will soon be the worth of a man? If our people are to have the breadth of understanding required to live intelligently in this complex world, certainly those who progress to the upper levels of the educational system must receive a broader general education than is now common. This is not the place to discuss the detailed changes that need to be made in the college curriculum. Suffice it to say that our students, if they are to be well-rounded and effective citizens in this mid-20th century, must achieve an understanding of the main ideas and the intellectual methods in the major areas of knowledge. It is no longer possible for an adult citizen to live intelligently in the contemporary world, for example, without some knowledge of the essential scientific facts, not the specialized data offered in a course in one of the scientific fields suited to the needs of a future PhD, but the general knowledge related to the everyday life of the average citizen. Similarly, in the social disciplines, there is a corpus of significant facts without which citizens cannot understand and cope with the complexities of modern life. Likewise, through the study of the humanistic subjects, students should gain an understanding of the intellectual and moral bases of our free democratic institutions. Surely, none of these subjects can be neglected by those who seek to qualify themselves for positions of leadership in a free society. But today, I want to focus attention briefly on a particular indispensable element in the general education program. Our principal problems now arise out of the relations between men and men and between men and their governments. They are problems which deal with human values, as these values are manifested in social institutions. If our citizens are to understand and preserve our free system, they must know the history of mankind's effort to embody these values in the laws, the traditions, the customs, the mores of Western European culture, and more particularly in our own national life. This means, as I understand it, that instruction in the humane disciplines and the social sciences which treat the Judaic Christian tradition and the evolution of our own social institutions must be broadened, vitalized, and made a common element in the education of all college students. Some of our people, and I regret to say even some of those who have had the advantages of higher education, express ideas and exhibit behavior which shows that they do not understand and appreciate the human values upon which our social system rests. In my judgment, the present situation demands an intensified emphasis upon American history and the United States government. The study of our fundamental governing documents, which have determined not only the character of our government, but also the informal relationships among our people, needs to be made an essential part of the experience of every American youth. Now this will require something more than an uninspired and mechanical review of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of Rights, and the other basic charters of our life. It will require a study of the evolution of the ideas in these documents and a review of the human thought, effort, and blood that was spent to establish these principles as the controlling forces in the relationships among men and their governments. Such study will provide the basis for an enlightened consideration of our own social problems in terms of the traditional rights and responsibilities which these documents establish. It will also arm youth ideologically against false doctrines. It should make our people realize that a merely negative attack on the evils of communism is not enough. Young people must be prepared affirmatively to understand, prize, and defend the ideas and the ideals which infuse our democratic life. These conceptions can be made vivid and real through the study of the events of American history and the history of other nations which have contributed to the evolution of free institutions. Acquaintance with the events which occurred at Runnymede over 700 years ago will cause students to realize that on that occasion something more took place than a mere agreement between a king and a group of rebellious subjects. That on that spot, men took firm action in throwing off the yoke of tyranny and thus achieved a measure of freedom to determine their own destiny. Through a study of our revolt against England, students will learn something about the efforts of subject peoples today to achieve the dignity of self-determination as members of this free world. By a study of the events which led up to the emancipation of the slaves during the Civil War, students will appreciate the simple truth that all men have a right to freedom and justice without regard to color or previous condition of servitude. Through such study of the historical incidents which have shaped our national life, young people will gain a clearer understanding of contemporary public issues and the firmest possible defeats against ideologies and practices fundamentally opposed to our own. They will realize that the present conflict is not merely a conflict between one type of economic system and another, but rather that it is a choice between one value system in which the individual is free to determine his own destiny and another in which he is the helpless creature of the state. They will learn that our system embraces and that totalitarianism rejects such basic conceptions as respect to the dignity of the individual, the rights of freedom of speech, assembly, and of worship, the idea that everyone should be free in his actions except when he constitutes a menace to other members of society, the view that men are innocent until proved guilty. The outcome of the present worldwide conflict between totalitarian nations and the free world will determine whether or not these views concerning liberty among men and the nature and destiny of human life shall prevail or be driven from the earth. At this time, when these very values are at stake, it is of crucial importance that young people know the significance of the matters at issue. In the long run, this knowledge is our best defense against subversive philosophies and practices. There are also dangers to our free institutions at home. Every loyal American wants to deal promptly, firmly, and effectively with subversives. Some of our fellow citizens, however, in their eagerness to root out totalitarian influences, are embracing practices closely akin to those employed by the totalitarians themselves. The traditional freedoms enjoyed by our countrymen from the beginning of the republic are now sometimes abridged, perhaps unwittingly, by some of our own people. These persons are either not acquainted with the political and social conceptions which have shaped American society, or they fail to see that some of the devices now being implied are essentially totalitarian. One who observes the American scene thoughtfully cannot fail to be disturbed by present encroachments upon the dignity of the individual and the rights of men to speak their minds freely. If we are to preserve our freedom, we must not tolerate unwarranted attacks on the good name and the character of loyal Americans with total disregard of the damage done to their names, their families, their right to earn a living, and their other rights as men in a free society. Loyal Americans must not be publicly condemned and ostracized without the opportunity of defending themselves before a tribunal of justice. The public platform must not be denied to some of our citizens on the simple grounds that their views do not happen to please other members of the community. Any thoughtful observer of the present situation must realize that if these practices are permitted to go unchallenged in the United States, suspicion, fear, intellectual timidity will result among our people and our very social structure will be undermined. One of our most distinguished jurists, Judd Lerner at hand, has said about these infringements on our freedoms, quote, I believe that that community is already in a process of dissolution where nonconformity with the accepted creed, political as well as religious, is a mark of disaffection, where denunciation, without specification or backing, takes the place of evidence, where orthodoxy chokes freedom of dissent, where faith in the eventual supremacy of reason has become so timid that we dare not enter our convictions in the open lists to win or lose. Such fears as these are a solvent which can eat out the cement that binds the stones together. They may in the end subject us to a despotism as evil as any that we dread, and they can be allayed only insofar as we refuse to proceed on suspicion and trust one another until we have tangible ground for misgiving. The judge continues, the mutual confidence on which all else depends can be maintained only by an open mind and a brave reliance upon free discussion. I do not say that these will suffice. Who knows, but we may be on a slope which leads down to aboriginal savagery. But of this I am sure. If we are to escape, we must not yield a foot upon demanding a fair field and an honest race to all ideas. If present practices which undermine the essential rights in our democratic society are extended, we shall perhaps unconsciously embrace the very totalitarian practices most repugnant to free men and the whole complexion of American society will change. If this condition is to be avoided, one of the most important responsibilities of our educational institutions in the days ahead must be a greater emphasis upon our historic origins, the development of the controlling values in our culture and the responsibilities of citizenship in a free society. To accomplish these objectives will require wise and steady leadership in the administrative officers and the faculties of our colleges and universities. This institution is fortunate to have at its head in these critical days Dr. Buell G. Gallagher. It's been my privilege to know Dr. Gallagher for many years as a fellow worker and as a friend. I know that he has rare, a rare combination of intellectual, emotional, and spiritual qualities which qualify him uniquely for the heavy and exacting responsibilities of the office upon which he now enters. With regard to the two matters I have discussed this afternoon, general education and our free institutions, his thoughts and his acts clearly exhibit his understanding of and his dedication to that broad, humane learning and the principles of human freedom which these institutions must cultivate in our people. He has an arresting intellectual versatility, an intense and abiding love of freedom, and an uncompromising moral courage. More than ever before in the life of this nation these qualities are required in the men and women who occupy high office, public as well as private. Buell Gallagher will discharge his responsibilities as president of City College of the City of New York wisely and well. On this felicitous occasion I congratulate the City College on its selection of Dr. Gallagher for this high office and to him I extend warm personal greetings and best wishes. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause So it's not by fire that's canal but it's seen it's near. It's a whole in redeBob which is called Naz Marc CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS We are in Specs, we are in Specs, we are in Specs, we are in Specs, you will be in the field. And still it's all, and still it's all, and still it's all. We'll see you next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, here is the Honorable Charles H. Tuttle, Chairman of the City College Administrative Committee. I now have the honor to present the Honorable Dr. Audrey Teed, Chairman of the Board of Higher Education, for the purpose of delivering the charge to the President, and for the purpose of conducting the ensuing ceremony of investiture. Thank you, Mr. T. Tuttle, the Honorable Mayor Imbalteri, the members of the community of the College of the City of New York, and all our friends who are kind enough to be our guests this inauguration. It is, as the Chairman says, now my happy duty to bestow upon our new President the symbol of his office. And in doing this, a word of introduction or charge is customarily in order. All colleges stand today at the crossroads of the deep emotion and the deep emotion that the community of the College of the City of New York, and all our friends who are kind enough to be our guests this inauguration. It is, as the Chairman says, now my happy duty to bestow upon our new President the symbol of his office. And in doing this, a word of introduction or charge is customarily in order. All colleges stand today at the crossroads of the deep emotions of humanity. It is, at least in part in the colleges, that the aroused thoughts, feelings, and hopes of our fellow men should, through the spontaneous fresh vision of youth and the more sober reaction of maturity, come to find their content and direction, to get their constructive expression, and be charged with a drive to move on in the indicated new directions, both of intellectual and of moral activity and conquest. Only so will these deep emotions of humanity get any rightful focus and power. It is thus, in some sense, true that in the college, the students may possess a greater dynamism than the teachers. This is no criticism of teachers. It is only a rather dramatic way of saying that in college institutions, and especially in one like this college, the immediate sense of life, the immediate sense of life, the immediate sense of life, press in upon the students in difficult and disturbing ways. They demand education which is organic to their life. Their education has to have a degree of realism. Realism that will bring together objective and subjective confusions. False separations of means and ends. Unsound confusions and interpretations of material spiritual dualities. Even though it's true that any ultimate organic unity of conception and of action is never completely given to humans to understand or to realize, the immediacy of life expectancy and experience among our city college students thus creates a faithful responsibility for the teacher and the teacher's leader. It's relatively easy for those of us with academic security to say this is an age of anxiety. It's hard for students in the uncertainties of youth to overcome in any conquering way the anxieties they have today to face. We cannot leave our students naked in spiritual impoverishment as they confront the unforeseen. The courage to be requires to be fostered anew, afresh. The great betrayal would be that, having asked for the bread of life which education can in some part offer, our youth were to receive a stone from us, intellectually, spiritually. Our educational offering may be replete with fact, information, scientific content. But what I have to ask, does our education possess of something familiar for more than 2,000 years, which comes down to us as the claim for faith and hope and love? After the whole history of Western civilization, with now a faint but growing historic trickle from the East, have we, faculty and administration, nothing to say that yields to students a doughty courage to be a free self, to have confidence as to the meaning of the future, to grasp the dominance of spiritual forces and influences in the on-floor of life, to strengthen in each student the ties of biological and social fraternity? These are questions which have to loom large, I am sure, in the approach of every new education leader to his responsibility. And they are vital questions here. And only as the leader has deep within him his own profound, convinced affirmation of the rational and the spiritual foundations of his own being, can he carry the torch, light the fires for others, and renew the faith and zeal of all? It is such a leader, with such foundations of conviction and faith, that we are here today to induct. City College is exceedingly fortunate that following the administration of a president of steady integrity, a loyal member indeed of the Society of Friends, there comes to its headship now a man of declared and committed faith in God and in man, under the aegis of democracy. Ewell Gallagher's career supplies the evidence of his strong convictions. His appealing personality and nobility of his character inspire confidence in all who deal with him. His academic and scholarly records are well established and tested. His tenure of presidency of a Negro college in Alabama was a labor of splendid dedication. His subsequent efforts have been of like challenge and a fruitful result. And conspicuously in his most recent post with the United States Office of Education. In the few months he has been with us, he has established friendliness with board and faculty and students. He has displayed discerning sympathy in his relations with all who have crossed his path. And he himself has said, it seems as if all my prior experience was to prepare me for this post. We concur in this judgment, Mr. President. And we induct you in this belief. And so I shall now pronounce for you our official words of inauguration. And so I shall now pronounce for you our official words of inauguration. Now the actual inauguration ceremony is taking place. I, General of the Board of Education, New York, hereby call you Mr. President Gallagher, and the opposition to the President of the City College of the College of New York, with all its rights and privileges. And as a symbol of the opposition now so, I hereby present to you the seal of the college, the position of the state of the state, can you be the duty to fulfill the obligation of your office to the best of your ability, and may God be with you. In just a moment now, Dr. Buell Gordon Gallagher will make his inaugural address upon being made the seventh president of City College. At the present moment, he is receiving the congratulations of the various members of the faculty and the dignitaries assembled here. Now, in just a moment, Dr. Gallagher's inaugural address. In accordance with the hallowed custom, we shall now listen to the inaugural address of the new President of the City College. We welcome this opportunity to learn of his problems and aspirations. Ladies and gentlemen, the seventh President of the City College of the College of the City of New York. Now, here is Dr. Gallagher. Dr. Tuttle, Dr. T, Mr. Mayor, friends old, too many to mention I see here today, and friends new, with whom I look forward into the future. I should like today to speak on the subject of freedom and integrity. It is my belief that the free college is the citadel of a free society. In this present hour of history, the continuing battle for democratic freedoms comes to sharp focus in the struggle to defend academic integrity. Now, there's nothing new in the fact that academic freedom must be defended against all attacks. Through the dark ages, the monasteries, the then equivalent of the university, kept the lamp of learning burning for the day when its light might shine more broadly. In the 18th century, the University of Glasgow gave sanctuary from the tyrannies of vested interests. And in that Scottish sanctuary, James Watt devised the double action steam engine. And under that same protective aegis that was brought to publication in the very same year, Adam Smith's inquiry into the wealth of nations. Thus, academic freedom launched the industrial revolution and the economic revolution on which a free world economy rests today. Oxford is notoriously the home of lost causes. But the unpopular ideas germinated within academic halls, protected from a hostile society, have a way of seeding themselves in the soil of the common life. And later sprouting in vigor to enrich and to ennoble the life of all. Now, I for one look with dismay and mounting resentment on the growing tendency in our day for persons, organizations, and groups outside the academic halls to intrude themselves and their ideas upon the college and the university. I shall oppose with all my vigor any effort of the Communist Party to tell the president, faculty, and students of the city college what to think and how to act. With equal determination, I reject the suggestion that the Nazi fascist mind has a place among us. Or that persons committed to racist dogmas should be free to poison the minds of you. And with equal resolution, I set my face against certain politicians or so-called patriotic organizations or self-styled educational experts who bring their forms of pressure upon educators for reasons best known to themselves. Thank you very much. Thank you. The people's right to know is the key to all our liberties. And this right to know carries with it the right to inquire and to teach freely, without interference from outside pressures. Now, freedom can be lost by subversion from within Just as readily as by intrusion from without Therefore, integrity must be coupled with freedom If the battle is to be won Occasionally in academic circles One runs across men who seem not to know The significance of integrity in intellectual endeavor These are they who bring to the process of intellectual endeavor Not an open mind, but a prejudgment They stand on some theory, conviction, or dogma Which claims absolute validity And which in its nature is not amenable To revision in the light of the evidence They wear the scholar's garb And go through the motions of scholarly competence But they lack that basic desideratum Without which there is no integrity In thought or action They are not ready to revise their convictions In the light of the verified facts They do not engage in inquiry and teaching For the purpose of testing and hypothesis And revising assumptions in the light of the evidence Instead, they insist that all inquiry and all instruction Are merely instruments to their preconceived ends Now consider an example or two The Marxist interpretation of natural history Natural science Is not guided by the evidence As the Lysenko controversy sadly demonstrates The Marxist interpretation of natural history The Marxist interpretation of natural history The Marxist interpretation of natural history Instead, it is an interpretation Springing from a fixed theory of human nature And of human behavior Which contorts the facts of history To conform to dogma And the lengths to which the dogmatic compulsions Of the closed mind will drive Are shown in the current criminal absurdities Of the Kremlin anti-Semitism And who among us needs argument To convince him that totalitarianism of the right Is just as inimical to faithful inquiry for truth As is its twin evil on the left Now there are voices today Which would include religious dogmatism In the catalog of objectionable traits Which threaten academic integrity I count myself among those voices But notice my objection is not against religion It is against religious dogmatism Fortunately, we are emerging From the centuries-long warfare Of science and theology In our day, those who would try To warp empirical fact By seeing it through the distorting lens Of non-empirical dogma Have little influence There are so many Valavas Impotently insisting that the world is flat While jet planes girdle the sphere Now in our western world We have acknowledged that faith And knowledge are of different orders Each requiring its own processes We do not confusingly identify We do not confusingly identify Reason and revelation We hold that it is impossible To know what can only be believed And we hold that it is immoral to believe Whatever can be known We therefore do not permit dogma To pervert inquiry By letting dogmatic faith Disregard empirically founded knowledge On the contrary Reason and evidence Enrich a free faith And faith in its turn Throws light on the path of experience Now our contemporary problem Is how to emerge From the uneasy truce Which has followed The many centuries of warfare Between science and theology Into the new day Of fructifying cooperation It may well be That the future of the western world Will be decided By the degree of success With which we bring faith And knowledge Into an affirmative relationship Both shorn of dogmatism Uniting scientific discoveries And ethical insights Into a purposive pattern Here at the City College We hold that men are to be free To choose their own faith Whether Jew or Gentile Protestant or Catholic Atheist or free thinker Furthermore We welcome the diversity Which this brings We ask that no man apologize For being frankly What he is As a believing Or disbelieving person We seek freedom for religion With mutual respect And the right to dissent We reject any form Of religious bigotry Not merely because Bigotry makes for Poor human relations But also Because bigotry Is irreverent Perhaps blasphemous A truly religious man Like a truly scientific man Approaches all matters Of evidence openly And freely Refusing to force The patterns of dogma On himself Or his fellows Or the facts of life Herein lies true reverence For nature For man And for God Who is the ground of truth And the fount of freedom Freedom When it is freedom Includes the right to dissent With impunity If educators then Are to be true To their heritage They must I believe With Thomas Jefferson Be opposed To every form of tyranny Over the mind of man They must defend The right of men To think otherwise To dissent And to quarrel With one another In the search For better answers To better questions No participant In the educational process Should be permitted To retreat Into some coward's castle Of dogmatism Claiming immunity And no matter What immunity Is claimed None from outside The college Or university Can be permitted To level False accusations Of subversion Against the process Of free inquiry For the essence Of subversion Is the destruction Of freedom And therefore Dogma From whatever quarter Is truly subversive Only when academic freedom Is carefully safeguarded Against intrusions From without And against perversions From within Only then Is freedom of inquiry Safe And only then Is the future Secure Now the heart Of the matter Is integrity Given integrity Freedom has foundations Without it All freedoms Are endangered No man should be put In jeopardy For holding an opinion But when an opinion Holds a man Freedom has become Impossible for him Because there is no Integrity in him Free inquiry Into the evidence In the continuing Search for truth Is beyond the capacities Of the closed mind Thus the man Who lacks basic integrity Disqualifies himself As a candidate For the fraternity Of the free He is committed In advance To betray Academic freedom To whatever dogma He espouses He has the same Standing in the Citadel of democracy As any other traitor And his treasonable Presence within the college Does not give him The right to claim The protection Of the academic freedom Which he has violated And which he With his closed mind Seeks to destroy Now in the hysteria Of the present hour We must I believe Avoid two extremes Of error On the one hand Are those who say That in order to Protect the innocent We must let the guilty Go unidentified Others claim That they would rather Victimize some Who are innocent To make sure That all the guilty Are caught Surely both These attitudes Are counsels Of despair If we believe That bank robbers Are bad men Are we then Justified In stationing police At the door Of every bank To shoot Every person Emerging from the bank On the theory That we shall Eventually shoot A thief And is it not Equally absurd To argue That because Most people Who come out Of banks Are honest customers We should never Arrest anyone Coming from a bank For fear of Antagonizing Or stigmatizing Honest customers Among whom A thief has mingled And finally Before we cry Stop thief We had better Be sure That the man Accused Is actually Running with the loot And not merely Trying to catch a bus Now for my part I will have None of the Dragnet methods Of trial By accusation Which are being Proposed in some Quarters Neither Neither Will I stand Aside And refuse To act When the evidence Is clear Merely because Some men Allege that Action against The guilty Is an infringement Of academic freedom Freedom In the academic Realm As elsewhere Rests on The careful Safeguarding Of the innocent And the equally Careful Identification Of those Not innocent To act Otherwise Is to be Morally Irresponsible Integrity Alone In all The catalog Of the virtues Has no Antonym It is as Nearly An absolute Of character As man Has discovered Truth Truth is Known in Contrast To falsehood Honor And dishonor Stand in Opposition But who Will name The opposite Of integrity The psychologist Argues that Integration And disintegration Are polar Opposites Integrity Integrity Is something More than Integration Integrity Assumes An inner Core Of moral Purpose Which is Inviolent Integrity Then is The focal Center To which All else Refers The city College Was founded 106 years Ago As the Free Academy It was Intended To be Free In three Meanings Of the Word No money Cost For instruction No barriers Of creed Or color For admission And no Dogmatic Locks On the door Of free Inquiry But there Is a Price To pay At this College A price Demanded Of students And teachers And administrators The price Of our Freedom Is Integrity And only We can Pay it Each For Himself This institution Is a Microcosm Of American Democracy All of The problems And all Of the hopes Of a great Nation And a Free People Converge Within its Sometimes Turbulent And always Exhilarating Life Here if Anywhere We have The chance To put Into practice The maxim That education Instead of being Merely preparation For life Is life Itself Here if Anywhere The qualities Of sound Scholarship And moral Vigor Can supply The needs Of youth In its Search for Values And its Hunger For ideals Worth Living For It is Then with Quiet confidence That I Address myself To the Task before Me Trusting That my Colleagues Of the Student body And faculty And the Alumni Will prevent That confidence From becoming Arrogance In these Opening six Months They have Already Demonstrated A peculiar Effectiveness In keeping Me humble I trust They will Continue to Do so Without Reticence I am not Foolish enough To presume That I shall Make no Mistakes Neither am I Vain enough To arrogate To myself The deference Sometimes paid To the office Of the presidency With charity Forbearance And mutual Respect We shall Have malice For none We shall Apply our Energies to The central Purposes Of education We shall Defend Freedom With the Shield Of integrity By transcription Your city Station Has brought You excerpts From the Day-long Inauguration Ceremonies For Dr. Buell G. Gallagher As heaven President Of the City College Among the Speakers Were Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere And Dr. Gallagher Delivering His inocural Address This has been A public Service Broadcast Of your City Station We return You now To our Studios In the Municipal Building formula 것을 Asiques The upgraden latter As smok According to arm Muslims Fuck pria In my country Universe but Eve is nacional andבת in them. And now In more belasting believe of women in the glory that called is bringing Basically, thee of thy Oh