In behalf of the faculty, I want to express to you our greatest appreciation for the possibility of us coming here today and setting the cornerstone for our new building. Some members of the faculty and those of the printing industry who have been waiting for this occasion, which we consider the most outstanding one of its kind in the history of our school. We've been waiting for this to happen for more than a quarter century, and we are glad that you are with us to share our pleasures at this time. As principal of the school, it is my privilege to present to you the man who will preside at these ceremonies. It is my privilege to present to you the President of the Board of Education, the Honorable Charles H. Silver. Commissioner of the Board of Education, the Honorable Charles H. Silver. Mayor Wagner, President Stark, Mrs. Fiske, Mrs. Donnelly, Mr. Friedman and members of the Graphic Arts Commission, my colleagues on the Board of Education, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen and students of the New York School of Printing. Thank you, Mr. Tegel. We are indebted to you as principal of the New York School of Printing and as a man who has spent more than 25 years on the faculty of this school for helping to bring about a splendid arrangement for today's ceremony. I know that I speak for all of us in congratulating you on the impressive sight of your students marching in with their pressman's caps and signs. The sentiments on those signs are certainly ones with which we all agree. I will be proud to be proud of you. I want to thank also the Caristo Construction Corporation for the great efforts they put forth to have the area made ready for these ceremonies. This is a notable day not alone because of the purpose for which we have gathered, but also because it is the birthday of Benjamin Franklin, master printer and publisher. He was born on January 17, 1706 and he lives today in the heart of every American. On this historic anniversary, on this plot of land, we will lift a structure unique and apart from any other academy in North world. It will be a bold and dramatic milestone in functional beauty, a model and high standard for every other community in America. Today, the teaching of printing, New York City's second largest manufacturer industry will be centered in a school of its own, a $7 million structure that will be, without a doubt, the finest school of its kind in the world. the teaching of the country. the teaching of the Washington Park is one of the most important things that will craft a lot of people who have been doing in the world. On the ever-widening borders of education, your school will be an outpost of youth adventuring into the black magic of applying ink to paper to reveal the printed word to the multitudes of the earth. the earth, soaring in stone and steel. It will stand as your city's proud answer to one of our nation's greatest educative needs. But it will be so much more than stone and steel. These things do not really make a school. It will live and breathe. It will pulse with the spirit and energy of the students who will learn within its walls and the instructors who will teach in its lecture halls, shops and press rooms. It is not too difficult to erect a building. Mankind has known the art for centuries. Our aim is to keep alive in this citadel of learning, the living, breeding inspiration it inherits from Benjamin Franklin, who was setting type as an apprentice printer at the age of 12, who published Paul Richard's Almanac and founded the Saturday Evening Post. He loved the art and craft of printing all his life, and even at the age of 82 was writing to Noah Webster concerning some improvement in printing. The letter F in freedom of the press might well stand for the name of Franklin. Here, I am honored to convey to you the greetings of your entire Board of Education on this happy occasion. For the past several years as President of the Board, I have had the pleasure personally of dealing with the men within the school system and also within industry and labor who have life to this great project. I have never met a more determined, unselfish, and devoted group. They have given us courage, advice, and practical aid. They have been generous with ideas, arguments, delegations, equipment, and reports. Indeed, they have shown me everything except indifference in their determined effort to get this school going and to bring it from the plan board and the blueprint to this great day. This school is part of the unique educational program under which we are providing specialized schools for specific major industries. Here in New York, we do not believe in part-time or half-fake training. The requirements of New York industry and the standards of New York labor are so high that none but the best can qualify. We of the Board of Education know that we must provide the highest possible level of instruction, and that is exactly what this school and schools like this will offer. And let it be said here and now that the efforts of all these men and the many hands and hearts that labor to make this school possible would have been in vain without the aid and encouragement of our mayor. It could not have been constructed at this time were it not for his enthusiasm and interest. The mainspring in our mammoth school building program, a dynamic leader who gets things done, is our mayor, Bob Wagner. Working shoulder to shoulder with him in a close and enthusiastic relationship, the employing printers, the labor unions in the printing arts and crafts, the dedicated faculty of the New New York School of Printing and the members of your Board of Education have all labored for the consummation of this cornerstone lane. They may well take pride in the fruit of their efforts and proudest of all, I am sure is the beloved principal of your school, Freddie Tagle. I too take particular pride in this great structure with facilities for education and recreation on Green Dove, even a decade ago. I have sensed from the beginning of my association with the printers of this city, that here is an industry with an inborn love of education. This is as it should be, for printing is the very cornerstone of education itself. This is an industry in which not just a few men, but everyone with whom I have come in contact knows the value of education and has given us sincere day-to-day cooperation. I have observed in the course of my life and activity in business, civic, philanthropic and educational work, that the true test of sincerity is the speed with which men move from words to deeds. I give printing industry of our city the grade of 100%. 100%. Education in our time has taken on many new jobs. It has broken into our daily headlines and it is breaking through narrow and outworn concepts. It has broken into our daily headlines. To the three R's of reading, writing and arithmetic, we have added the fourth R of reality. We are building schools today where every boy and girl who attends not only graduates with a good education, but with a basic technical knowledge to get a job in industry. And I am sure that all of you will not find it hard to see that we are at the same time building fine young men, good citizens, and honest workers. The printing industry carries enormous responsibility as a medium of mass education. It deals in the most precious merchandise of all. Words, the printed word, and through these words, ideas. This is of greater importance to our civilization. Actually more potent for our life or death and the preservation of our liberties in this land that we love. That the clothes we wear, the food we eat, or the homes in which we live. That is the most primitive. If men had to relinquish every material comfort and do without even the most primitive convenience, if there were still the printed word and that word told the truth, there would still be hope, there would still be ideas, and soon there would be progress. I think that is the meaning of education. Give men the printed word. Give men the truth. Beat them back and again and again, but they will grasp at the word, they will clutch at the truth, and they will climb upward to reach the light. The printed word, the freedom of the press, is the keystone of democracy. Here in our vast, sprawling city, we have the largest public school system in the world. But my friends, there is a larger and greater system of public schooling than ours, and that is the printing press. It reaches and teaches hundreds of millions of people every day of the year in almost every corner of the globe. The printed books tell the story of all of our yesterdays, the romance of man's progress, the pattern of history, the results of research, the fruits of discovery. Printed newspapers and magazines bring before our eyes and minds the facts and perils of the present, the challenge and opportunity of the future. This is education on a grand scale indeed, and the impact of the printed word stirs the conscience of mankind upon which we must build our hopes and plans from what we read and learn today in building a better tomorrow. Out of these classrooms will come a breed of men better equipped to defend our way of life in an age of desperate competition. Out of these classrooms will be the generation of people. Out of these classrooms will be the generation of doers, dreamers, masters of the printed word. Their art and industry will pierce the veil of superstition and fear, shedding light, understanding and knowledge. Thus men may meet the challenge of the future to live in peace and happiness among other men of goodwill and the greater world envisioned at the birth of our democracy by Benjamin Franklin when he said, I think that nothing is of more importance than to train youth in wisdom and virtue. Wise and good men are, in my opinion, the strength of our nation far more than riches or arms. God grant that not only the love of liberty, but a thorough knowledge of the rights of man may pervade all of the earth. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Ceremonies such as this have sometimes been known to omit the most important element in the school, the students. We're not going to make that mistake today. In recognition of the fact that this is a school for young people of New York, and in recognition of the genuine spirit and devotion among the students of the New York School of Printing, I have asked the president of the general organization of the student body to join us in these exercises. To speak for the thousands who will enjoy the advantages of this magnificent new structure, I would like to call on Edward Steffens, president of the general organization. President Silver, Reverend Coleman, his honor the mayor, members of the Board of Education, honored and distinguished guests, Mr. Tegel, members of the faculty, and the mayor. Mr. Tegel, members of the faculty, parents, and fellow students. On behalf of the student body of the New York School of Printing, I wish to thank you, Mr. Silver, and the other members of the Board of Education, Mayor Wagner, and all of the people of the city of New York for giving us our new school. Thank you. Thank you. We are all pleased and proud that you have called upon a student to participate with you in this ceremony of the setting of the cornerstone. We realize that by doing this, you have said to us, this is your school. We have built it for you. Use it well. In return, all that I can say on behalf of the students is that we cherish and respect our school. Within our abilities, each of us hopes and strives to get from it all that it can possibly provide us in education, training, and good citizenship. We have all known about the school you are building for us, but until we came here today, we must admit we did not fully appreciate how wonderful it really is. None of us, I am sure, can be here today without being enthusiastic. We want you to know that we realize from what we see just how very much you, the Board of Education, want us to succeed, and how you are doing everything to help us get the best possible education. On behalf of the student body of the New York School of Printing, I have the honor to present to you, Mr. Silver, a souvenir of this occasion, a complete set of printed materials which the students have prepared for this ceremony. May we, in return, request that each of those who participated in the ceremony here today autograph for us a copy of the program, which we will display as one of our permanent trophies. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Since this building is physically located in the borough of Manhattan, it was largely the responsibility of the Manhattan board members to see it through to completion. Shortly after the selection of the site for the building, our next speaker joined our board as my fellow member from Manhattan. He needed no instruction in school matters since his father has served with distinction as superintendent of our schools. He wasted no time in urging the advancement of this project and deserves our commendation for his aid in bringing the New York School of Printing to reality. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. William O'Shea. Having less fur on my head than most of you, with your permission, I'll speak with my hat on. And as this school is on the dividing line between President Silver's district and mine, I start the north side of the building. And as we start the north side of 50th Street and he ends on the south side, I won't try to interrupt the chattering of your teeth by telling you or reading to you the speech that I prepared for the occasion. I will merely say that I unite myself with what Mr. Silver said as our districts are united at this very street. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. One of the greatest friends of vocational education in New York is a lady of charm and energy. This lady is not shy when it comes to doing anything that will advance the cause of vocational education. She has been secretary of the advisory board for vocational and extension education since 1928, practically since our program got underway. She enjoys not only the affection but the deep respect of management and labor in every industry. When we planned today's ceremony, we asked the trade unions who should represent them and speak for labor. They told us there is only one person who above all others deserves this opportunity and this honor. She is the first vice president of the New York State Federation of Labor. The best friend that vocational education has had, Miss Betty Hawley Donnelly. She is the first vice president of the New York State Federation of Labor. Your honor, the mayor, distinguished guests, friends, and over and above all, future printers of the city of New York, the boys of the New York City Crate School. You know, boys, you're not having to attend school this morning. So, I have written a 40-page speech. And if you want to show that you're worthy of being a printer in this great printing industry, you're going to have to stand here and freeze and listen to it. You know, you look very wonderful in those caps. I hope you get one very soon. And I hope you get a membership in the union. And I hope you get a job in industry. I am here to bring you the greetings of the president of the American Federation of Labor, CIO, George Meany. Mr. Meany had planned to be here today. And in the name of 15 million organized people of the nation, about 10 million in the state of New York, and 1 million in the city of New York, we say from the bottom of our hearts, thank you, Mayor Wagner. Thank you, members of the Board of Education, Superintendent Janssen, and your capable staff, for providing the kind of a headquarters, the kind of a building and training facilities that will help us furnish to America the kind of a printer for which the printing industry has long been remembered. You may well read in the history books that the greatest organization and the organization in the lead for education way back in the Knights of Labor was the American Federation of Labor. And foremost among the leaders was the great printing trade unions. And so I say to you, parents, you have chosen well when you have guided your kids into this kind of a great industry. And I say to my associates on the graphic arts commission, after 30 years of facing our sights to the sun, we now see, not on the horizon, but a reality today, this great institution devoted to printing trades education. And I would be remiss in my responsibility if I did not pay tribute to the workers who are building this building, also members of the great American Federation of Labor. Carpenters, bricklayers, cement workers, bless them all. We join with them. We join with them. We join with them in saying, thanks fellows. The Board of Education, the city of New York, the state of the nation is proud of you. And bless you fellows, one and all. The Advisory Board of Management and Labor, representing the printing and publishing industries in the construction of the New School of Printing, is known as the Graphic Arts Educational Commission. One would think from the vigorous efforts of this commission that they are all salaried officials of the New York School of Printing. As a matter of fact, they are all volunteers serving without compensation. And as a sideline, they are busy presidents of trade unions and heads of their own companies. The chairman of this commission, who has served devotedly for many years, is a man dedicated to education in its broadest sense, and especially to vocational education. He has flown back from California just to be with us today. I know that this must be a tremendously happy occasion for him and for his fine sons, who are associated with him in business, and for his many friends. I should like to call on the chairman of the Graphic Arts Educational Commission, William H. Friedman. The President of the Silver, the honor of the mayor, the council president, Mr. Stark, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed a very happy moment for all of us. On behalf of the Graphic Arts Educational Commission, representing management, labor, and education in the graphic arts, I want to thank Mayor Wagner, Council President Stark, President Silver, Commissioner Benzli, Superintendent Janssen, and all the other members of the Board of Education and officials for their wholehearted support in providing us with such a beautiful building, of which we are intensely proud. We are indeed confident that this new building will, better than ever, enable us to train men of learning, skill, spirit, and inspiration, men who will be better trained for life and for a good, worthwhile living. What a school, what a building. What a wonderful thing it is to live in a city like New York, to live in a growing and progressive city where your dreams, our dreams, can come true. What a school, where people of all faiths, creeds, and color can work, study, and play together in harmony for a common purpose to make our New York the best city in the world to live in and grow in, in happiness and contentment. What a school, what a school, what a school, what a school, what a school, and must remain so. It must ever be alive and never remain static. It must always continue to move ahead and never stand still. It must always anticipate problems and be prepared for them. We must have, we need, and we ask for now the continued and thoughtful cooperation of all in authority to make this school not only justify the big investment, but to capitalize on it year after year. In other words, we must make this school grow in stature, usefulness, and effectiveness year after year, and thereby add to the greater glory of our beloved city. In conclusion, may I add a word of personal thanks and appreciation to Mrs. Betty Donnelly, Secretary of the Advisory Board, who did so much. To Dr. Don Taylor, the President of the New York Employing Printers Association. To former Assistant Superintendent Morris Siegel. And I want to pay a tribute to the late J. Henry Holloway, organizer and first principal of this school, whose creative energy and indefatigable ability did so much to weld together labor, and deliver management and education into a common goal. Namely, the welfare of the student and help make the product so acceptable to industry and to citizenship. I would indeed be remiss if I did not give thanks to the splendid teaching staff and to Mr. Freddie Tagle, the able, capable, and progressive principal of this school, a genius in public relations, if ever there was one, and to all the other countless people whose help, cooperation, and encouragement have made possible this wonderful monument to the foresight and genius of management and labor, working hand in hand with education and governmental authorities, and making this new building for printing education and good citizenship a reality. Again, on behalf of our industry, I say to Mayor Wagner, President Silver, Commissioner Bensley, Superintendent Janssen, Council President Abe Stark, and all others, we thank you from the bottom of our hearts. We are honored to have with us the distinguished President of the City Council who has always been a friend of our school. I will ask him to please take a bow. This amazing metropolis of New York is a world in five boroughs, a blending of every race and culture, a proud example of the brotherhood of man, and a living monument to man's progress. Only the President of the United States is faced with a greater responsibility than that of the administrator who sits in City Hall to guide the destinies of our vast municipality. He has come to join us here today. This is where he should be, because in the last analysis, despite the good intentions of your Board of Education, of industry, and of labor, there could be no building such as the one we see rising today if we did not have a city administration intensely interested in education. We are fortunate that our city is headed by a man raised in a great tradition, dedicated to every cause that will improve the health, welfare, and happiness of the people. Our Board of Education could not function effectively without the inspired encouragement of New York's chief executive and the vigilant determination with which he works and fights for such great goals as this great school. I present education's warmest friend and tireless champion, our mayor, Robert F. Wagner. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, my good friend Charlie Silver, reverend members of the clergy, and ladies and gentlemen. I, too, just like Betty Hawley Donnelly had a prepared speech, but in view of the fact that Benjamin Franklin chose an awful cold day to celebrate his birthday, I'm going to ask leave to file and have the speech printed and I'll ask the President of the Student Council if he'll do that for me. I know I've been informed over here that the cement is hardening and that we better get along with the ceremonies. Let me just say this. I'm very proud to be here and to see this building arising. I'm proud of the fact that myself and the other members of the Board of Estimate had something to do with the building of this school. I want to thank all of those in industry and in labor, the printing industry, all of the members of the Board of Education, all those who planned this school and who are building this school for their good work. And I know that for generations to come, young men will go through this school and give thanks to those who made this great institution possible. God bless you and thank you very, very much. God bless you and thank you and thank you. Thank you very much. It is only fitting that the final event of our program, the actual setting of the cornerstone, be presided over by the practical dreamer whose sincere efforts always get things done and done well. He is a dedicated worker for more and better schools whose industry and application inspire everyone who works with him. He started our $100 million a year building program and he's definitely the man to see it through. He labored and sweated over the practical details of this project and in pursuance of his civic duty. As a board member, he has cut tailed many of his own personal business activities. We owe him a great deal for he has become the real expert on our Board of Education and the matter of school construction in all its phases. I take pride and pleasure in introducing my faithful colleague on the Board of Education and Chairman of our Committee on Building and Sites, Charles J. Bensley. Thank you, President Silver and Mayor Wagner, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Fellows, here goes my speech so you can relax. I just want to say this. Building 30 new school buildings a year, we're spending $100 million a year. It would not have been possible for us to be here freezing our feet today, but standing, ah, boys, we're going in a minute, but standing here in what will be one of the most magnificent edifices in the world. None of this would have been possible if we didn't have a man as mayor of this city who believed in schools. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. Mayor Wagner. When the history of education is written, and particularly the city of New York, let me say here and now, I have served during the administrations of four mayors. No one has ever been more dedicated to schools than the mayor. That's all I want to tell you. Now it's my very pleasant duty to present trials to many of our distinguished participants. Just as a token, I will now present this trial to the mayor of the city of New York who made this building possible, the mayor Wagner, on behalf of the Board of Education. The others will be presented down here, and we're now going to set the cornerstone. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.