This year, 1949, we are electing in New York City a mayor, and we have before us two candidates. Both of them very good people, but one of them who's been our mayor since 1946. Now, coming in in 1946 was not very easy. The mayor found a city which, during the war, had been unable to do many of the things that should be done in any large city constantly. Equipment had run down. Services of all kinds were depleted because of the lack of equipment. And that meant, of course, major expenditures. They could not all be done at once. So, you found your mayor, handicapped by the war years, as all businesses were, as all people were, really, having to try, on the level of providing a big city with what they needed, still to pay for what was needed and give the service, in spite of poor equipment, while he was getting new equipment. On the whole, if we look at it, not from the point of view of what disappointments we may have suffered, but from the point of view of what actually has been done, I think we must be very proud of Mayor William O'Dwyer's achievements. Because today we have a city that has new equipment, the best equipment, wherever it is really needed. And we have probably never had anyone who could show as good moving forward along the lines that a city like ours must move. For instance, you will say, of course, that we don't have as much as we need, along many lines. But we have moved steadily forward, and the plans are laid to continue that going forward. All of us have been interested, probably, as our very main interest, and our first interest in housing, in slum clearance, in providing as much housing as possible in every way that it could be encouraged. Now, we have really had, in the matter of slum clearance, the biggest city housing program in our history. Apartments, city-sponsored, for 193,000 persons are actually occupied or on the way to being built. That's a tremendous program in a time when there still existed a great many shortages of material. And when labor was high and it was difficult to accomplish the things that you knew had to be done. Housing, of course, is a basic thing in any big city. Living conditions of people are really frequently conditioned by the kind of houses they are forced to live in. And when a big city is actually trying to get rid of its slums, it's doing one of the best things that can be done for the health and the well-being of the people of that city. But it's costly and it's slow. And I think we should be very proud of what Mayor O'Dwyer has been able to do. I know that one should not compare with what has been done in other big cities, in countries where the war actually has been on the people's doorsteps. But I could not help noticing a year ago in Paris the difference between what we were doing and what they were forced to do there. Living costs had soared so tremendously that the average wage earner in a city was paying between 75 and 80 percent of his entire income for food. As a result, the cost of rent had been kept down. It had never gone up. He paid very little for rent. But the owner of the property could therefore not even pay his taxes, much less make any repairs. And that basic thing to good living was going just the way it shouldn't go. Every house you saw was in deplorable condition. And there was no real balance to the economy that the people had to live under. Now, we did not have the same things to fight against. We didn't have the same conditions as an occupied country. But I could not help thinking how fortunate it was that we had been spared those conditions and that we were able in this country where men of vision came into office to move forward on fronts such as housing, which are basic to the well-being of the people as a whole. And I think that we have to be very grateful that we have a mayor to whom people who are interested in child welfare, in education, can go and make their complaints when they need to make their complaints. Now, we all know that it isn't always possible in a big city to attain the ideal. We fall far short of it in New York City. But certain things have happened. We have more schools going up, and the program for building schools is one of the biggest that we have ever had. It's true, we have more children put into the schools, and we have to make up for all those war years when we simply crowded the schools unbearably. But we do have a mayor who has an understanding of his problem. He actually set himself a goal of one new school a month, and he's accomplished it. And the program for school building in the years to come is all laid out and all planned. And that means to the families of this city a tremendous amount. Now, we need, of course, more hospitals, more accommodations for people. We haven't got enough hospital beds. But again, we're moving forward. We're moving forward in our transportation system. We have what we've never had in any city before, a real setup to deal with the labor difficulties that arise. The division of labor relations is the first thing of its kind set up in any city and is being copied in other cities. And it's a good pattern to follow because we have to learn how to come to solving questions of this kind through negotiation and to resort to strikes as little as possible because where big cities are concerned, it upsets the life of literally millions of people when the troubles that arise in labor situations cannot be settled in an orderly and fair fashion without resorting to strikes. Now, there is one thing that I have particularly at heart and that I think we have made good progress in in New York City, and that is the question of civil liberties. We know that New York has probably some of the greatest problems along these lines. But at least on the government level, we have a mayor who is willing to agree with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which the nations in the United Nations, 48 of them, accepted as a standard for which they would strive for. He is willing to treat all people in his city as equally important, regardless of race or creed or color. He is willing to make the effort to have them all recognized as equally important human beings. And I think that's something that we should consider. It's true that many promises can be made by other people. And I know, for instance, that just lately, a tremendous campaign has been carried on by one of the political parties to persuade the people of that section of the city that they should vote for other candidates. I think it will fail because I think the people will realize that the Democratic Party, under Mayor William O'Dwyer, has given this city a very fair administration and that the people of the minority groups have had every chance for recognition. They have had fair treatment. They have been able to appeal. And I think they have done... They have every reason for being grateful to the mayor. So when Election Day comes around, I hope that all the people of New York City who want good, clean, fair government will vote for Mayor William O'Dwyer and the other people on his ticket, Mr. Joseph, Mr. Impiliteri, and the rest of the Democratic ticket. Thank you.