...deferring all college students or all bright college students in all fields of study. I think it may be possible that we are in a situation where we must recognize the necessity for deferring the intelligent, serious student who is in preparation for certain highly critical activities which we will be short of supply in if we take all those people out of college. Somerbell? Well, the cartoon type of college student who spends most of his energy on social affairs and whose ambition is to make the minimum acceptable grades in the softest courses should be drafted. The serious, hardworking, talented type who can make a greater contribution to the strength of the nation with college training than without, he should have his induction postponed, not for his own benefit, but because the welfare of the nation is at stake. I think that's a sound statement. Now, the question is whether or not the policies under which we're operating right now do that particular thing. It seems to me that at present we are proposing to defer students on a much more wide basis than Mr. Somerbell stated. Is that right, Colonel Armstrong? Well, of course, it presumes a deferment of all fields. That is, literature and art, as well as the sciences and professions and so forth. What is the statutory provision under which we're now deferring college students, Colonel? Well, Section 6i2 of the Selective Service Act of 1948, as amended, provides that any person who, while satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction at a college, university, or similar institution of learning, is ordered to report for induction, shall, upon the facts being presented to the local board, have his induction postponed until the end of such academic year or until he ceases satisfactorily to pursue such course of instruction, whichever is the earlier. Well, that seems to be completely clear. In other words, we've been doing that during the current school year. That's correct. If a lad is in college and carrying the work satisfactorily, he's deferred typically until June, isn't it? Yes, he may be deferred from September when he enters school and is attending classes until June when the class period ends. Well, now, the thing that produces this discussion, really, is this new executive order providing for general tests to be given to college students and deferring them on the basis of their scores on these tests? That's correct. I understand that the arrangement, which Colonel Armstrong just described, comes to an end at the close of the present school year and we move over to a new arrangement governed by an executive order. Well, actually, the basic law will continue in operation. Any student will be postponed. Under the basic law, this is an entirely new situation that's created for the student. It supplements rather than replaces. Am I correct in that? That's correct. It supplements. Now, what is this proposal to defer on the basis of general tests, anyway? What is that executive order? Well, the executive order, which was issued by the president, is the result of two years of study by a large committee made up of 24 members, who were originally divided into six committees and met as subcommittees. And they presented reports to the committee of the whole, and then they worked out a general report and a general program. That was called the Tritton Committee. They reported in December of 1950. And on the basis of that, the president's executive order, number 10230, was issued, which provides that any student who is in college may take these tests, and if he passes with a score of 70 or better on the test, he may be deferred during the period of his college life. At the pleasure of his draft board. At the pleasure of his draft board. It's purely under the jurisdiction, certainly, of the local selective service board, subject to the appeal rights that are inherent in the law. Now, I'm correct in this, am I not, that such deferment is a deferment and not an exemption from the military service. That's correct. He is expected that at the time he completes his course, and we have found that the average graduate is about 22 years of age, he will then be subject to consideration by his local board for entry into the military service. He'll serve, in other words, later, but he'll serve better because of additional training for the jobs that the country needs to have done. Well, that's what we believe, and that is the object of the executive order, to prepare the necessary skills and knowledge that are required in modern warfare. Do you mean by your statement, Mr. Summerbell, that he will serve later in military service? If that is where the country needs him most? Or it may not, may it not be expected that the nature of the training which these students are taking and because of which they are deferred will lead to his serving in industry, in the laboratory, and so on, and therefore, many of these people, we hope, will not ever see military service. You mean that you hope or that we hope? The expectation of the back of the policy is that by deferring people who are now in college, we will produce men whose usefulness in the laboratory, in industry, and other places, not in military uniform, will be so important that probably many of these students never will be called up for military service. Is that not the expectation back of the policy? Well, I would say this, that regardless of the amount of education they get, as long as they are under the ceiling, age ceiling in the law, the local board will still determine, subject to appeal, after their graduation, whether or not they shall serve in the military services or be deferred. Just because they take this course is no assurance that they are going to avoid military service. And if it can be demonstrated after their period in college, I take it, that they would serve their country better in some civilian capacity, their deferment could be continued, right? Their deferment could be continued because, I repeat, the local board does have control of the classification, subject to the appeals. Well, now, before we debate this, the wisdom of this proposal, let me ask one more question, Colonel. How are these boys, 18 or 18 years, 18 and a half years old, the lads that are likely to be inducted, who are planning to go to college, how are they affected by this new executive order? You mean those who have not yet entered college? Yes. Well, of course... They're finishing high school now and they're planning to go to college. Can they take these tests now? Well, yes, they will be able to take the tests, but not this particular group of tests. They will take later tests that will be set up because we're inducting now men who are 21 years of age. The boy who graduates from high school this June, we'll say, will have plenty of time to get into college this fall. He will then be subject to the statutory postponement of one year. And during that time, he may be allowed to take the tests to determine whether or not he should continue his sophomore and other years in college. Well, I think that clarifies the matter we're discussing here. Let me ask the question that I think Heinemann has in mind, Summerbell. Why should any special deferments be granted to college students anyway? That is, does college training develop knowledge and skills of use to the military effort? Very definitely, yes. In the last war, we were cut off from silk. College trained men gave us special nylons for parachutes and flak vests and self-sealing gas tanks. We were cut off from rubber. Patton's dash across Europe was possible because college trained men gave us synthetic rubber for his tires. We were cut off from quinine, but we could fight and win the war in malaria-infested Africa and in the South Pacific because we had the skills to make quinine substitutes. High-octane gas won many dogfights. Proximity fuses solved the problem of the Japanese suicide pilots. College trained men gave us penicillin and sulfa drugs and blood plasma. Thousands of our listeners were alive because of the skills of college trained men, skills that they learned in college. Now, does that comport with your experience in selective service, Colonel? Well, yes, McBurney, it does. The other day, I had one of my World War II occupational advisors drop into my office, Professor John Schomer of the Illinois Institute of Technology. As well as being an advisor to me, he also was an advisor to some very highly placed agencies in Washington. And he recalled to mine two or three cases that I think are worthy of discussing here. Here's a B.S. in mechanical engineering. It's a Bachelor of Science degree in mechanical engineering. That's correct. He was withdrawn by me on the request of John Schomer the night before he was being inducted. This man was placed on a train. His wife was not notified. He had no baggage and sent over to Akron, Ohio to the United States Rubber Company. They had to have a designer. And while there, he redesigned the Swedish Bofors anti-aircraft machine gun, increasing the range by over 1,800 yards and improving maneuverability and increasing the production rate by 65%. At the same time, the accuracy was greatly improved. Then there was another graduate who was flown hundreds of miles to take charge of fighting fire which was out of control on a battleship which might have forced abandonment of the ship. Because of his educational training in this field, he had the knowledge that enabled him to bring the fire under control and possibly save hundreds of lives. That was Lieutenant Commander Scanlon. Then there was a chap that was recommended by Schomer to the Navy and who served, he was a graduate of Princeton, literature and art. He served as a cryptographer as an officer in the United States Navy, helped to break some of the enemy's most important codes, had to know at least two foreign languages, be a brilliant mathematician and have faculty for solving puzzles. After war, the war, a Navy admiral told John Schomer that this man was mainly responsible for the cracking of tough Japanese codes. Now, there are a couple of cases of men whose college training became of vital importance to the winning of the war effort. Can you imagine the breaking of the Japanese code, how important that was and how quickly it brought victory to our side because we had the ability? I'm sure we can all agree that jobs of this sort must be done, that college training helps to produce men that can do such things. Now, the question to be considered here as I see it is whether or not in order to be sure that men with such knowledge will be available in the future, we ought to defer students who are now in college and who in the immediately forthcoming years will be in college. I don't think the proof that all of these things must be done is proof that we must defer men who might otherwise be called up for military service so they can stay in college and promise such achievements in the future. college training is available only in college. Well, sure, that's right, but the colleges will be here even if some of the students who otherwise might go to college are drafted. That doesn't meet the question. Heinemann, does the fact that we may be drafting men for the next 10 or 15 years make any difference in considering college affirmance? I have no doubt that it does if one reasons the whole thing out carefully, but I must admit that trying to see what's involved here on the basis of each of two presumptions, I'm unable to make up my mind just what the consequence is. That is to say, I can see a case for deferment and a case against deferment if we're just preparing for a quick war. I can see a case for deferment and a case against deferment of college students if we're preparing for a long, hard, drawn-out war. I guess the best way to put my case is this, my opinion on this. I think that it may be that we're already in a situation and can be reasonably sure we've got a situation ahead of us that calls for us to very carefully defer college students of high capacity who are preparing for certain kinds of critical service. But the executive order which we have before us now, the present policy of the national government seems to be to defer or to give a blanket recommendation to the draft boards to defer students who are doing well in music, in literature, in history, and so on, and I can't justify that. Well, of course, Heinemann, under the present situation, we have a rather healthy war over in Korea, but we don't have the military forces engaged at this time or necessary at this time. During World War II, there were approximately 14 million who got military status during that period. That was what you might call an all-out mobilization. Now, this program is designed for what you might call the long pull. We expect that we'll have to have an army of three and a half million, four million, something like that for many years to come. We must continue to produce the people that are necessary for leadership militarily and in civilian activity. And I think that's the basis upon which this can be justified. Now, I think also that we have to figure that if there suddenly was World War III when we had again total mobilization, that this program would then have to be brought to an end or at least very greatly restricted. The high school graduate seldom knows enough to select his field of greatest usefulness. Who are you going to train to be doctors until they've had a couple of years of college? And certainly college administrators and parents can't do this selecting. Looking back, we can all name the areas that were important in the last war, but I don't know anyone with the nerve to think that he can do it for the next one. We might even need some good political scientists. I am puzzled about this matter of relating the experience of the past to guesses about the future. Now, when I say that I think that we ought to try to identify the highly critical needs of the country and then, if necessary, defer students who are preparing for those fields, I recognize we have only the experience of the past to help us and it may not be good. But the high school graduate isn't preparing for any field. He needs a couple of years of college to decide upon his field. Well, if I thought, if I agreed with you on that, Mr. Summerbell, then I'd think we might write this deferment program that every person who goes to college proves himself to be smart might be deferred up till the time till the college professors can decide what he's good for or the student can decide what he's interested in and then, from that period on, defer only those that are preparing for the critical fields. I don't like this idea of deferring the smartest students in every field of study including pump, fence fixing, post hole digging, clock winding. if we've got such things in our colleges or music or art or political science or history, I can't see the case for that yet. Of course, I come back to the point that we're talking here about an emergency that may be 10, 15, or even 20 years. And in those terms, Heinemann, might it not be that the arts, music, your field, political science are critical in a very real sense. They certainly are important. If they aren't, then society is being very foolish in maintaining people who are doing those things. So let's agree they are highly important to American life. Now the question is whether or not in order to keep them going, we must defer the students who are preparing for them. There will be girls to go on and study music and art. There will be 4-H students who can't pass physical requirements who will continue. There will be men coming back from the war to go on. I don't think the study of politics in the United States will suffer greatly because during a four or five year period, whatever be the life of a boy's service in the army, he'll be pulled out of his normal ways of study. he'll get back into it after the war's over. Didn't I understand you to tell me, Professor Heinemann, that you instructed a lot of people in military government during the last war? Don't you think that people in your field, political science, will be necessary and will be needed in a lot of these areas where if we have World War III, it may be necessary for us to provide government? Oh, surely, surely, but unless, unless, the call for them comes very late, the boys who are in college now won't contribute that kind of training. Certainly during the last war, the men who were being trained for the kind of service you speak of were in uniform. Some of them were drafted and were commissioned after they went into the service. The men that taught them were in some cases men in military uniform, in some cases, civilians. But they weren't taught by youngsters, they were taught by older people. I think we've got a lot of old people to continue to do the training of the young people. Yeah, but how about the fellow that's going to carry out those, uh, that training in the field? They have to be the younger men. Well, we had a shortage of men with particular language skills and knowledge of foreign countries that we liked, and it's true that if some boys who had been drafted had stayed in college, they might have acquired some knowledge of those languages. I, I, I, uh, want to acknowledge this, that sure, if you defer all of these people, some of them will do something good. The question is, is this as fine as we can cut it so that it, because some may prove highly useful when their training's completed, we defer all smart students in college. Well, you know, uh, Professor Heinemann talks about all of the students we're going to defer. Now, uh, the figures that we've received, uh, from national headquarters, uh, where they've made a study of this program seems to indicate that not more than about 3% of the male groups, uh, male age groups will be, uh, involved in this particular program. Now, that's just a very small number when you figure it out. And they are to be deferred and not exempt. They're deferred and not exempt. I'm glad you brought that out. It's a temporary deferment. Now, I, I, uh, have the feeling that Heinemann, uh, thinks, uh, this program that, uh, you, that we're discussing here is, is unfair to the lad in industry and to the lad on the, on the farms who doesn't get this, the opportunity for this kind of deferment. Is, is that your point? Yes, that's right. Now, I've done too much talking here and I don't want to let other people get in more words. I have this feeling that sure, we can guess that some of these boys that are deferred will, because of their deferment, make a great contribution to the country. But we could also guess that many, a man, young man who's working in industry will be learning things there and give him a future usefulness and if we deferred him, he'd make a great contribution to the country. Now, we can't defer everybody. I simply insist we've got to choose very carefully who we plan this deferment for. And while it is true that the number that would be recommended to draft boards for deferment under this program may be a very small part of the total male population, it's yet expected to be a very large percentage of those who are in college. Do you think this program is undemocratic, Armstrong? Well, no, I don't believe any program that is conceived for the purpose of building a strong national defense where the condition of the world such as it is today is undemocratic. If you direct men into the armed forces, they don't all come under fire. There's only a very small percentage of them who have to undergo the hazards of actual combat service. And so, there again, you'd have your intelligence, the same intelligence that we're talking about, would come to the top and those men would be placed in many positions where they'd be far from the battle scene. You're saying in substance that it is, it's humanly impossible to share the risk equally. That's correct. Always has been so. Yes, we'd train a mechanic to repair the bomber and we'd train a pilot to fly it. Heinemann would have them swap jobs every day or so so that we could distribute the risk equally, democratically. Well, to read that kind of a conclusion and anything I've said, you really do have to look into a crystal ball. Is it fair, though, Summer Bell, to the boy who cannot afford to go to college? Well, the demagogues have gone to town on that one. It is true that a few must have, must help support the family and they won't be able to go to college. Even if scholarships were plentiful, they would have trouble getting there. But most boys with health enough to be drafted and intelligence enough to be worth training for the national welfare can go to some kind of college. The cooperative system helps a good many of them. Some families spend their income for television sets and new cars and steak and others listen to the radio and drive the old car and eat beans and send the kids to college on the same income. We're not selecting boys to excuse them from the draft. We're selecting those who with college training will make this country invincible. Do you think, do you think that as Heinemann has suggested we ought to confine this to the critical areas? Well, I wouldn't entirely agree with that because who's going to determine which are the critical areas? For instance, take the nuclear physicist. Some 10, 12 years ago they wouldn't have thought of deferring that individual because he would have been a luxury. Take the Japanese professor. who was used in military intelligence in the Far East. That fellow would not, would have been not considered under a program of this kind in those old days. Well, let's agree that we can't ever plan anything in advance with complete assurance that what we plan to do proved to be best. That surely isn't an argument that we shouldn't do the best planning we can based on past experience. It could turn out... Sorry, gentlemen. Our time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion should college students be drafted. Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. You may subscribe to the weekly reviewing stand bulletins for $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Today, our guests were Colonel Paul G. Armstrong, Charles S. Heinemann, and Robert K. Somerville. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the important question, Is World War III Inevitable? Our guests will be Stringfellow Barr, president of the Foundation for World Government, and author of the book, Let's Join the Human Race, and William M. McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University and nationally known authority on Far Eastern Affairs. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Is World War III Inevitable? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Proceeding transcribed, this is the Mutual broadcasting system.