Stop a minute and listen. Perhaps the sound means very little to you. A note on a horn, you say. But think a moment. It means much more. The fact that you can hear it means that you're a living, breathing human being. It means that this is a story written for you. Because this is a story for the living. For the Living with Edward G. Robinson and Gene Lockhart. This is how it happened. And remember, it might have happened to you. If you had been wandering along a certain side street of a certain suburban small town one spring not long ago, you would have seen two old men busy at work making a garden between their two houses. These two, Willis Armstrong and Otis Thompson, have been friends and neighbors for a long time. Willis' boy, Tom, and Otis' girl, Lynn, have grown up together. And now they say, Well, that's another story. The two old men are struggling with a fence at this point. Will, got that staple in good and solid? Sure. Got it in front of one of the barbs on the wire? There's a lot of pressure when I pull down with this wire puller. Go ahead. The other two strands held all right, didn't they? All right. She's stretched. Now, give me a staple up here. Now. Hurry up. Otis, if you think this strand of barbed wire on the top of this fence is going to keep the dogs out... Ah, that'll hold it. It's what matter about your side of the garden. Nothing's going to grow there anyway. Chemical fertilizer. Why, it's against nature. Otis, you stubborn old goat. Science has proven that sometimes you've got to give nature a hand. She'll double-cross you if you don't watch her. Ah. Well, let's get that other strand up. It's a lot of nonsense. When I was a boy on a farm, we knew what nature was going to do before she did it. Made her work for us. Now, you wait till you see the peas I grow. That fancy stuff you put on them will burn them up. We'll see. Grab onto that wire now with the puller. I got some more seeds to... Hiya, Pop. Hello, Uncle Lottis. Here come the love bird. Hello, Will. Hello, Will. I see Dad browbeaching to putting up that barbed wire. Here. Lynn, if Tom ever gets as stubborn as your dad after you're married, you have my permission to shoot him. Well, who's going to shoot who? She's your father's daughter. Gave me another argument about that nursing course today. Uh-huh. Say, where's Mother? I'm hungry. She's in the house. Oh, Dad, I better get you something to eat, too, don't you think? Well, get this last strand of wire up, and we'll quit. All right. Ready for a staple, Otis? It ought to be tighter. Let me see. All right, now. I think now, maybe... Oh, it's out the wire! Daddy, you all right? Otis, you hurt? Well, just don't stand there. Help me up. Get me untangled from this stuff. Daddy, you ripped your shirt. We all have to sew. Daddy, you're bleeding. Your arm there. Oh, it's just a scratch. One of the barbs. Now, don't make a fuss. Let me see it. Martha. Martha. Look at that, will you? Caught me right next to that mole on my arm. Almost lost my beauty mark. Yes, Will? Bring out a Band-Aid, will you? Otis cut his arm. Oh, now, don't make a fuss. It'll heal up. We'll just let nature take her course. Come on, kids. I'm hungry. And so, old Otis Thompson let nature take her course. He had his first warning that he might be wrong a week later when he and Uncle Will were again working in the garden. Say, Otis, how's that scratch on your arm getting along? Notice you haven't got the Band-Aid on it. Oh, a little slow, I guess. It doesn't seem to heal. I took that thingamajig off to let the sun and air get at it. Now, let me see. Isn't infected, is it? Looks funny. No, no, no, no, it's not infected. Say, Otis, that mole looks different. Bigger, don't you think? And the surface. Didn't look like that before. Ah, imagination. Nothing wrong with that arm. A little time won't take care of. Come on, let's hope. As though Otis Thompson didn't know it, time was now his worst enemy. Wasted time. A week later, a dinner at the Armstrong's. Otis, I do declare that arm doesn't look any better. Looks worse than the day you hurt it. Will... Oh, I've been after him, Martha. He ought to see a doctor. Otis, Dr. Munson's a good man. Not a nonsense. Now, just give it time. I'll have some more chicken for me, Martha. Sir, Daddy, please. Aunt Martha, he's just got to see a doctor. There's something wrong. I feel it. Why, Lynn, I'd feel foolish going to a doctor with a little thing like this. Now, I'm not going. It's been three weeks now, Uncle Will. You've just got to persuade him, Dad. Lynn's been worried to death. Here, this way. He's in the kitchen. We'll get him to the doctor if we have to carry him. I've already called Dr. Munson. He's at the hospital. We can see him there. Now, don't you worry, Lynn. Everything is going to be all right. Go ahead, Dad. Otis? Yes, Will? We're going to take you to the doctor, and I don't want any argument. All right, Will. Oh, Daddy, you'll go. Well, you've got me worrying now. I'll go. Pigmented mole. All right, now, let me feel here behind your elbow. But it's that scratch from the barbed wire, Doctor. Three weeks, you say, huh? Is this sore here under your arm? Ah! Yes, it is. And here? In your neck? Yes, Doctor. Doctor, is it blood poisoning? No, I don't believe so, Miss Thompson. Let me see. You're 56, aren't you, Mr. Thompson? Yes, but what's that going to do? I want you to go to bed here in the hospital for a few days while we make some tests. Then we'll know for sure. Go to bed? For a little thing like a scratch? I'm more interested in that mole. Miss Thompson, I'd like to see you here in this office tomorrow at 4 o'clock. Yes, Doctor. But what do you think it is? We'll know tomorrow, Miss Thompson. Tomorrow. I'm sorry I have to tell you this, Miss Thompson, but I think it's better that you should be told now. All in. Don't, don't cry, darling. Don't. Doctor Munson, are you sure? Yesterday we did a biopsy on that mole on Mr. Thompson's arm. What does that mean? We removed it, placed it under the microscope. The shape of the cells tells us the story. From a small blemish on his skin, which he's carried for years, that mole has suddenly become cancerous. Cancerous? But that scratch on his arm... Evidently that mole, when, we do not know, became what we call pre-cancerous. The scratch simply tripped the balance wheel, stirred it into rapid growth, caused it to spread. I could feel that spread yesterday in the lymph nodes behind his elbow, under his arm, in his neck. But cancer, there's something, anything. I... I'm afraid it's too late to do anything. Melanoma has spread so rapidly. But why, Doctor, why? The why of cancer, my boy? I wish we knew. We do know this much. Cancer is an anarchy of the cells of our body. For some unknown reason, suddenly one cell will change its structure, begin to grow, multiply entirely apart from the role of usefulness to which it's been assigned in the body. This growth feeds on the body, invades the normal cells, strangles them, and it can happen in any part of the body. But can't you do anything about it? There's the tragedy of our job, Mr. Armstrong. If we find these cells early enough, we can kill them early, with X-ray or radium, or cut them out with surgery, before they've had a chance to spread throughout the body, out of our reach. If people would come to us at the first symptoms, we could, in most cases, save their lives. They would only have regular checkups to discover any conditions which might lead to cancer. Dr. Munson. Yes? Otis doesn't have to know, does he? No, it's better that he doesn't know. But I imagine he suspects. Can he go home? Yes, Miss Thompson. He'll be active for some little while yet. Later, well, we'll cross that bridge when we come to it. And, Doctor, we're not going to let this happen to any of the rest of us. We want to be examined for cancer the minute you can find time to do the job. So, Otis Thompson went home. It isn't part of our story to tell you how he suffered as the end drew near. But during the weeks before that time, his daughter and his neighbors tried to keep out of their eyes their knowledge of what he had to face. Have you ever had to face death in someone you loved with a smile? It was even more difficult because Martha Armstrong had been to the hospital for an operation. She was home again well and happy on that late summer's day when Will was hoeing the weeds in the garden while Otis watched him from a deck chair in the sun beside the fence they'd built together. Will? Yes? You'd better get some more poles for those beans of yours or they're going to be laying on the ground soon. Yes, I'll have to. They got a pretty good crop. Mine don't seem to grow worth a darn. Nice of you to work my side of the garden since I've been feeling so washed out. Go on. You'd do the same for me. Will, how's Martha? Martha? Fine, fine. You've seen her around every day, haven't you? Doesn't come over much anymore. Will, what was she operated on for? Oh, you know, women's troubles. I see. Will, was it cancer? Huh? What made you think of that? Was it? You can tell me. Yes, Otis. Cancer of the cervix. Dr. Munson said he discovered it in its earliest stages before it had a chance to spread so that... So that nothing could have been done to save her life. Is that what you mean, Will? Yes. Something good came out of that barbed wire besides keeping the dogs out, didn't it, Will? I, uh... Will, I've been thinking. Maybe you ought to put some of that artificial fertilizer on those beans of mine. It mightn't be too late to help them. It might not be too late. I've been meaning to tell you, Will. I've kind of changed my mind. Decided you're right. It doesn't pay to let nature take her course all the time. I've... I've learned. It doesn't pay. Perhaps you have guessed that there is a moral to this story. Make it part of your way of life if you want to live. Remember this. None of us is free from the threat of cancer, young or old. But few of us need die of cancer if we give our doctors a chance to track it down, to find it early when it is just beginning to grow within us. That is the time when the three great weapons against it, the X-ray, radium, and surgery, can save our lives, kill the cancer, or remove it before it kills us. Knowledge of the symptoms of cancer, understanding of how it goes about its dreadful work of destruction, and regular examinations to detect it cannot help those 180,000 Americans who died of cancer last year. But they are the one hope for the living. for the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Gene Lockhart, was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Victor Bay, conducted by Lynn Murray, and was presented by the American Cancer Society to bring you facts about cancer which can save your life. Call your local cancer committee for more information and support your field army. good information for the living, and can save y'all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're listening to you so great. emonna in the matter The End What does this sound mean to you? Is it just a note on a horn? An isolated tone from some bit of music? What it is doesn't matter. The fact that you're hearing it does matter because that fact means that you're alive. The words that follow may help to keep you that way. They can do the dead no good. This is a story for the living. For the living with Edward G. Robinson and Donald Woods. Five men wait late one night in a dimly lit ante room of a great hospital. One of them is you, a newspaper reporter. And your business here is not pleasant. You've been waiting for hours for the word you know is inevitable. A little bored, a little annoyed, you wonder why you have to stand this watch. Of course, Senator Gordon is important, but so what? People die every day. You're pretty fed up when that door finally opened. Dr. Lomax? Amen. Gentlemen, the senator passed away two minutes ago. 12.51. That's all I want to know. Any last words, Dr. Lomax? So long, guys. See you at the church. The senator was in a coma at the very end. He did whisper something to his secretary before he lost consciousness. Probably told her goodbye. I'll use it. Cause of death, official. Cancer of the intestines. Oh, Dr. Lomax, I can't use that. My boss would blue pencil that in a minute. That's what he died of, gentlemen. And it's no reflection on his character that he had cancer. People are dying of it every day. If you men would cooperate a little more and breaking down the taboo against talking about it, we doctors might have a better chance to save some lives. I've told you before we... Okay, okay, doctor. I'll tell the chief again. But the last time he mentioned cancer in an obit, he got kicks from the family concern. Give me an alternative. Call it intestinal obstruction. Oh, that's fine. That'll do it. So long, doctor, and thanks. Well, sir? Excuse me, Dr. Lomax. I know you must be worn out, but if you could give me a couple of minutes, sir. I'm Barry Anderson of the trip. But just let me sit down a moment. Sure, go ahead. I've read your stuff, Mr. Anderson. Good. I like your science articles. Thanks, doctor. I just wondered if there might be a story behind the simple fact of the senator's death. Dramatic, probably. Human interest stuff. We've got his life story, of course, but... Mr. Anderson, what good end do you reporters expect to serve with something dramatic, as you call it? For the sake of sensation, you'll trade on human misery. Now, wait a minute, doctor. You say you've read my stuff. You can't accuse me of that. I thought I might get a story out of this that could help someone else. I thought... I'm sorry, Anderson. I know you better than that. I'm tired, and I don't... Wait a minute. You want to write something that will do someone some good? I want to try, sir. You might at that, if you've got the nerve to follow an idea of mine through. Try me. All right. Suppose I told you Senator Gorton took his own life. What? Oh, I don't mean suicide in the ordinary sense of the word. I'd call it unknowing suicide. And there are thousands of others doing exactly what he did to himself. You might be able to save some lives if you can show those others who read your paper why he died. But you said cancer of the intestine. Senator Gorton didn't have to die of cancer of the intestine. He himself caused his own death. Well, but how can you prove a thing like that? You are going to prove it for me, and I'll tell you how. In spite of the hour, Dr. Lomax, that night, drummed into your head facts and symptoms, gave you the knowledge you needed to understand why cancer kills, showed you why Senator Gorton died, how he could have been saved. Dr. Lomax gave you a job to do and told you what to expect. By the time he had finished, you could hardly believe he could be right. You went home, got some sleep, and the next morning you made a call. Good morning. I, I, the sign on the door at the office. I know, the office is closed this morning. But I heard you in here, so I came in anyway. But you... You're the Senator's secretary, Miss Samuels, aren't you? Yes. Young man, I'll have to ask you to leave. You probably haven't read the papers, so you didn't know. I know, Miss Samuels, the Senator's dead. I was there. I'm a reporter. Oh, then you'll see why today. I know he's dead, but I'm here to find out why, Miss Samuels. But if Dr. Lomax hasn't told you... He has, but he's told me much more that he's guessed. The Senator came into the hospital so suddenly, his operation was such an emergency. And the end, well, Dr. Lomax has asked me to confirm his suspicion. His suspicion? Dr. Lomax thinks that the Senator was the cause of his own death. What? Well, that's ridiculous. I've been his secretary for over 21 years. I know very well... Dr. Lomax doesn't mean what you're thinking, Miss Samuels. I think you'll understand if you simply answer some questions of mine. Certainly not. This seems to me in very bad taste. A time like this... Listen, Miss Samuels. Dr. Lomax thinks that if people know what really happened to the Senator, they'll have information that may help to save their own lives sometimes. Save their own lives? I don't understand. I want to know the Senator's habits in the past year. How he acted. What he did that was different from other times. How he told you he felt... Well, I don't see exactly... Wait a minute. That picture on your desk. Yes? How long ago was it taken? That's the Senator four years ago when he was entertaining the delegation. How much did he weigh then? How much did he weigh? Think. Why, let me see. I believe around 200 pounds. Of course, at the time of his death... He weighed 175. He lost 25 pounds in that time. He started losing two years ago. Don't you see? For two years. For two years, his intestinal cancer was giving him constant warning of its existence. He must have known that such a weight loss wasn't natural. Why didn't he do something about it, Miss Samuels? He thought... Well, he thought it was because he hadn't been eating well for the past year. Why? Well, he told me it was ulcers. You know he had an attack of ulcers several years ago. But didn't he see a doctor about them? I'm beginning to see what you mean. He was such a busy man, he simply took the medicine which he'd been given before for the ulcers. Where is it? May I see the bottle, please? It's in his desk. His office is right this way. I remember he took those pills an hour after he got to the office in the morning and exactly an hour and a half after lunch. I brought him a glass of water at exactly those times to remind him. I remember once I forgot. I think those pills are in this drawer. What happened when you forgot, Miss Samuels? Why, he rang for me. I came in. I'll never forget it. You could see the pain in his face. It seemed like it must have been abdominal pain. It was, Miss Samuels. Another warning of intestinal cancer. But whenever he took these pills... Let me see. Here. Miss Samuels, whatever's in these pills helped cause the senator's death. They eased those warning pains, kept him from going to the doctor. If he'd only realized... I see it now. I should have done something. I should have... It's just as Dr. Lomax said it would be. If the senator's wife had lived, she probably would have made him see his doctor. But left to himself, he was careless, neglected the warning symptoms. There were probably other symptoms, too. What are these two bottles? I don't know. I don't know. Dr. Lomax could tell me. Or... What about this Thomas Hinton that's mentioned in the papers? He was the senator's best friend. They lived together at the athletic club. Thanks, Miss Samuels. I'm going to talk to him. And I'm going to take these two bottles. I'll bet Hinton knows where they fit into this. I understand, Mr. Anderson. And as I look back on it, I'm convinced you're right. It's monstrous that all these months cancer has been sneaking up on old John unsuspecting. Not quite unsuspecting, Mr. Hinton. I believe he had more warnings than I've told you about. But would you mind looking at these bottles? Miss Samuels gave them to me. Let me see. Why, yes, that's a laxative I use occasionally myself. Recommended it to John about a year ago. You mean he was still taking these things? Evidently. Didn't he ever mention any trouble that way to you? Yes, as a matter of fact. And he told me it was unusual for him to have any bowel trouble. He's been free of it all his life until... Until his intestinal cancer started causing it. You've made the case against cancer terribly clear, Mr. Anderson. I expect you'll say that hemorrhoids are a symptom too. John had them. Dr. Lomax says that their sudden appearance can be a warning. It's terrible. Terrible. Why don't people know these things? I intend that they shall, Mr. Hinton. A little knowledge could have saved Senator Gorton's life. If he'd known what these warnings mean, Senator Gorton could have had his cancer diagnosed early, had it operated on when it first began to grow within him before it spread so far that he didn't have a chance. A little knowledge could have saved his life. So you think you have your story, Mr. Anderson? I'm... I'm astounded, Dr. Lomax. Everything you guessed at, every symptom you said you knew he must have had, every warning Senator Gorton felt for at least 18 months before he was brought here to the hospital to die. To die. But we could have saved his life a year ago. When I say that, perhaps I'm too optimistic. Let me put it this way. Cancer of the lower intestine can be stopped by surgery if it is discovered and operated upon early enough. If only one of those warnings had brought the Senator to the doctor, do you realize that even a simple blood count would have shown him to be suffering from anemia, would have started us on the search for the cause? Which reminds me, Doctor, the Senator was taking pills from this bottle here. Hmm. Form of iron to build up the blood. So, he knew even that. Another warning he ignored. Treating the warning rather than getting at the cause of it. I'm convinced, Doctor. You said you could prove he was the cause of his own death. As surely as if he took poison. But what can we do about it, Doctor? What are we fighting in this terrible disease, cancer? What are we fighting, young man? The cells of the body gone wild, invading, destroying the normal cell structure. But we men of medicine know this much, that we can stop the life-destroying careers of these wild cells if we find them early enough by cutting them out through surgery or destroying them with X-ray or radium. I think you know what else we're fighting. Yeah. We're fighting the ignorance, neglect, carelessness, and fear that killed Senator Gorton. That's my story, Dr. Lomax. The doctors know how to save our lives when we have cancer. They want to save our lives. But it finally comes down to the individual. Will we learn enough about the disease to recognize it in ourselves? Go to our doctors at the first warnings. Realize that the fears which keep us away from the doctor are the fears that kill us in the end. If you can put that idea across, Mr. Anderson... I'm gonna try, Doctor. I'm going to try. Yes, Senator Gorton is important. But now he's important to you for the deadly pattern he represents. A pattern which only knowledge and common sense can break. People die every day. One hundred and eighty thousand of them this year from cancer when most of them could have been living, breathing human beings at this moment if they had not waited too long. When cancer strikes, waste the time as its greatest ally, your worst enemy. You know this now. Remember it. You may never feel cancer's warnings. but if you do, do something about it immediately. Early diagnosis is our only hope, the only hope for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Donald Woods was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Frederick Steiner conducted by Lynn Murray. Your support of the American Cancer Society has made this program possible. Your local cancer committee and your field army has more information for you that may one day save your life. They'll be glad to tell you everything you need to know to protect yourself and your loved ones from this disease that takes our second highest death toll every year, cancer. ernainc entonces jugaшая 嬉aczego charger 菸 츠  Before 飛  cinemat yıl attersrado 满lerin 星 Thank you.
