Your City Station presents Charter Day 1949. I'm a New Yorker, born and bred. I've got a pretty good job. Nothing spectacular, but I managed to get along. Got a wife and two kids, boys. And with a family like that, you don't have too much free time, but you get plenty to keep you stepping. With the boys working on the school newspaper, I get to hear a lot about things I'd ordinarily let go right by me. But this month I've heard about a new thing, called Children's Day, which is bound to cost me plenty, what with those two boys. I've observed National Employee, the Physically Handicapped Week, Diabetes Detection Week, Fire Prevention Week, and Sweetest Day. So I've had a busy month. But I've had a chance to go to the movies, too. And I saw a newsreel. One shot was of a crowd of men grouped on top of what looks like it's going to be a fine building. They were raising a flag. And that looked pretty good to me, too. It was a blue flag, with a couple of olive branches, around a globe with all the continents on it. And after observing, as I said before, all those days recognizing worthy causes, I said to myself, here are all those causes in one, for the whole world. Now there's a thing to celebrate. And today's the day. October 24th, United Nations Day. I'm Harry's wife, Ethel. I saw that newsreel, too. Had to drag him out of the house to get him there, too. The newsreel, of course, was the topping off of the United Nations permanent building off there by the East River. But Harry's the kind of man who will say he's observing some occasion, and that's that, in spite of the boys' testings. But this time I said to him, Harry, this isn't like National Pickle Week. This is really important. It's the fourth anniversary of the day the United Nations Charter came into force. I think we ought to find out what it's all about. The days when international affairs were something for big shots to worry about are gone. That's exactly what I said to him. She did, too. But I'm not as dumb as she thinks I am. I had the same idea she did. And I wanted to do something about it. I wanted to find out just what these four years meant to the world. To me. And to my boy's future. So I took a day off from work. No one's indispensable. And Mother and I went out to Lake Success. Leaving the boys mad as anything because they had to go to school. Well, we got there and looked around. And finally we got to talking to a man outside. Excuse me. Do you work here? Yes. Well, we'd like to ask you some questions. Got a minute? Just what is it you wanted to know? Well, Ethel and I. Ethel's my wife here. How do you do? You're being very kind. Anyway, we wanted to know the score about the UN. We just figured it was about time we found out just what's been going on out here. Just what do you mean? Oh, not like it sounded. We just want to know what it's all about. How it affects us. What's been done. Well, that's quite a job. But I'll see what I can do. Why don't you come in here and sit down? This may take time. First, let's take some of the background of the UN. The United Nations is not the first world peace organization. In April 1946, the League of Nations held its 21st and last session in the halls that had once been the mecca of all the small, peace-loving peoples of the world. Halls that had once been dedicated to uphold the Covenant of Peace. The Covenant was the result of the tremendous effort of President Woodrow Wilson, of his dream of a peace that should prevent the birth of any other war. Said President Wilson, We are the participants, whether we would or not, in the life of the world. The interests of all nations are our own also. We are partners with the rest. What affects mankind is inevitably our fear. We should fight for the right and liberties of small nations, for a universal dominion of right by such a concert of free peoples, as shall bring peace and safety to all nations and make the world itself at last free. When the Covenant of the League of Nations, backbone of his philosophy, was finally evolved from the squabblings of the various nations, Wilson said, A living thing is born. But in spite of all his efforts, Wilson could not prevail upon the Congress to ratify the League Covenant. And his child, though adopted by 57 of the nations of the world, was not accepted by his own. Without the backing of the United States, the League in the years after the armistice dealt with over 40 major disputes, some successfully, others not. Until on May 9th, 1936, Italy announced the annexation of Ethiopia. And in July, the ineffective sanctions against Italy were lifted. In the midst of all the excitement and fear for the future, few sensed the note of truth and foreboding in the speech of Haile Selassie, the unprepossessing ruler of betrayed Ethiopia. When dwarfed by the imposing Hall of Peace, pitiful in his contrast to modern statesmen, he said, I came to give Europe warning of the doom that awaits it. I came to defend the cause of all small nations menaced with aggression. I came to defend the cause of all small people who are threatened with aggression. The problem today is much wider than merely a question of Italian aggression. It is our collective security. It is international morality which is at stake. God and history will remember your judgment. From that point, the League was dead. The child born prematurely could not exist in a world not yet ready for it. Then, 25 years and one war later, the world into which the atom smasher had been introduced felt the time had come for an organization which would keep the peace. That's the United Nations. Let's hope that we've learned a lesson since the League. Well, here's what the Charter has to say about it. We, the people of the United Nations, determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, which twice in our lifetime has brought untold sorrow to mankind, and to reaffirm faith and fundamental human rights, and the dignity and worth of the human person, the equal rights of men and women, and of nations large and small, and to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and to promote social progress, and better standard of life and larger freedom, and for these ends, to practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbors, and to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security, and to ensure by the acceptance of principles and the institutions of methods that armed force shall not be used, save in the common interest, and to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples, have resolved to combine our efforts to accomplish these aims. Well, that's what we want. A chance to live in peace and security and dignity. But I'm a practical woman. I want to know if that's really meant anything. Meant anything? Well, you know that one of the things we cannot do is to organize an international military force to make nations fall in line. So what we have to do is to use peaceful measures. We must negotiate. Use words as our weapons. We make nations meet each other around a table and talk. We try to make public opinion get them around the table. While the talk is going on, the world watches and listens. The weapons of words do not grow into guns. Take the summer of 1948, for instance, when the Berlin blockade was in headlines. They were UN delegates who opened the way to the lifting of the blockade, starting in the delegates' lounge and ending with a quiet dinner at Trifgi Leeds, with a guest list of Gromyko of the USSR, McNeil of Britain, and Rusk of the U.S. Then again, in January 1948, word came from New Delhi. The Indian army is in battle gear. Pakistan soldiers also ready to fight. The battle cry? Kashmir! Both India and Pakistan, then separate dominions. One Hindu, the other Muslim, wanted Kashmir. Fighting started. Laid out in headlines all over the world. Then died down. But at the U.N., work was just beginning, for it was a known fact that this could grow into a deadly religious war, spilling out over the entire continent. The case came before the Security Council. The spokesman for the British delegation, Philip Noel Baker, said, Gentlemen, if war breaks out in Kashmir, it may be the most terrible conflict in the history of mankind. In answer to this challenge, Mr. Lee sent a telegram to California. I'd like a window about there, but if you say it won't be right, well, uh, well, you're the architect. Uh, excuse me. They told me I'd find Admiral Cessar W. Nimitz here. Could you tell me... I'm here. What is it? A telegram, sir. Let's have it. Well, looks like you'll get to build this place pretty much according to plan. I'm afraid I've got a job on my hands elsewhere. What is it, Admiral? It's from the UN. They've arranged a settlement of the Indian problem so that the people of Jammu and Kashmir will decide whether they'll join Pakistan or India by, uh, a vote of the people, a plebiscite. As soon as a truce is declared, my job of supervising the vote starts. You'll do it, of course. Well, I like the United Nations, believe in it, and I want to help it. The United Nations News that the United Nations had stopped still another war, at least for the time being, reached Lake's success about noon on May 7th. It came in a long cable from Batavia, where the UN Commission for Indonesia meets. On that same day, the Assembly was deep in a battle over the admission of Israel into the UN. Through its commissions and its mediator, Ralph Bunch, the UN had brought peace to Palestine and had stopped war in the Middle East. It did it through the UN technique. Get them around the table and let them talk it out, no matter what. Well, that sounds pretty good. Just what is the score so far? One world war delayed, postponed, side-packed, or prevented. Three regional wars stopped. Sounds good to me. But what about the atom bomb and disarmament business? Seems to me there's been an awful lot about that. The rest of our box score reads like this. Armament races stopped. None. Atomic agreement reached. None. Yes, we've had some defeats, too. The atom bomb and disarmament are big problems. Ones which must be solved if the UN is to accomplish in full its aims. But it will take time, tolerance, and faith in the United Nations. Without faith in each other, the nations who are the United Nations will never be truly united. Without that faith and that unity, they may become less than nations. But whatever difficulties may arise in the councils of the United Nations on political affairs, there are other meanings to the term United Nations. Meanings which are as importantly stressed in the Charter. Economic and social meanings. United Nations Charter. Article 1, Part 3. To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. For the world to remain at peace, we cannot have millions of starving, unemployed people. People who have no rights in their governments and cannot feel secure in their own homes. The roots of political instability are found in poverty, disease, depression, ignorance, insecurity, and misunderstanding among nations. To strike at these roots, 18 nations elected by the General Assembly form the Economic and Social Council. Ringed by a series of commissions and independent specialized agencies, ECOSOC is the center of the fight against these threats to peace. Just what does this Economic and Social Council, ECOSOC, do? Well, here's an example. The mission to Haiti. Late in 1948, the government of Haiti sent a request to the UN for an on-the-spot study of the whole problem of Haiti's development. As a result of the combined efforts of financial, agricultural, medical, and education experts, a comprehensive blueprint for Haiti's progress was drafted. Now listen to this. International Labor Organization, ILO. Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, FAO. United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization, UNESCO. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. International Monetary Fund. World Health Organization, WHO. International Refugee Organization, IRO. What are they? They're a mouthful, I'll admit, these specialized agencies working for ECOSOC. But there's a grateful world because of them. Take Chile, for instance. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development loaned Chile $16 million for power projects and farm machinery. The Netherlands received $195 million to finance reconstruction of production facilities. And Dutch shipping firms got $12 million to help restore the war-damaged shipping fleet. France borrowed $250 million to meet the cost of importing equipment and material to reconstruct and modernize her industry. Well, that's important, all right. But it's too much for me. I'd like to know about the food and agricultural organizations. Through the FAO, experts have gone to Poland, Greece, Siam, and Venezuela to advise on improvements in the growth and distribution of farm products. Regional councils organized by the FAO are bringing groups of nations together to improve the food supplies of whole areas. Well, that's the big picture. Here's a smaller one that may interest you. Gentlemen, I write this letter through another hand because I have never learned to write. I am the wife of a simple Chinese farmer with a small farm and now a healthy ox to help us. We had one before, but he died of the rinder test. We went without food and clothing to buy a new beef. And until we were able to save enough for it, my husband and I pulled the plow ourselves. But now we feel safe that we will not lose this beef also. For there came to our village members of your organization who gave to our cattle a thing which will prevent forever the rinder pest from striking them. They tell me that many thousands of our work beasts have also had this thing to keep them from the rinder test. For this, I must thank you. My ancestors had no such wonderful guard as they were. Yes. Cattle in China. Chestnut tree blights in Italy. Rice in Venezuela. All over the world, FAO is working to improve food crops and distribution. Funny. When you've had enough to eat yourself, you forget that these things are necessary. Maybe you do, Harry, but I do the shopping, and you'd be surprised how they affect us and our budget. All right. So you're aware. Now, sir, what's UNESCO been doing? I've heard about some of the international meetings of theater people and things like that, but is that all? No, that's not all. For one thing, with $400,000 of its own, UNESCO is fighting illiteracy all over the world. Test projects are going on in the Marbeo Valley of Haiti and on the plains of Nyasaland in East Africa. With education, these people, some of the most backward in the world, will find for themselves a higher standard of living and of health, will become more productive and better citizens. For another, well, listen for yourself to a scene being repeated in schools all over the world. Oh, look at all these books. I wonder where they came from. All right, children. Quiet down now. But, madame, where are all of our all of your books? All right. Let's have quiet. Yes, I know you've not seen anything like this before, but happily, you have the books now and they're yours to study. You don't have to read and discuss them all just this moment. But where did they all come from, madame? They come from all over the world. From schools, from governments, from people. They were gathered from all over and brought to Paris, which is the headquarters of the UNESCO. Not only books, but the pencils we're using, typewriters, microscopes. But how do we get them? UNESCO, the United Nations Group, has supervised the distribution of all these tools for learning to the schools that need them most. And now, I hope we will all learn to become good citizens and can show how grateful we are for the help received from the people all over the world. Well, I think that's grand. But what are we doing for the other children, the sick and needy ones? You must know about the United Nations Children's Emergency Fund. Of course, Ethel. Remember when the boys were running a campaign in the school paper about it? Yes. And the United Nations appealed for children, wasn't it? At your office, they collected lots of money for the children who were crippled and sick for lack of proper care and nourishing. Yes. That isn't all. Listen to the story of Mary's baby. How do you feel? A little frightened, I guess. Because it's your first baby? There's nothing to be afraid of. To bring a baby into the world is a normal and beautiful thing. Especially if you're well and happy. Oh, I feel fine, Doctor. It's just that... I'm kind of worried. About what, Mary? Money, to begin with. You know that Tom and I both work and now I'm afraid I'll have to give up my job. Oh, not right away, though. This is only a second month, isn't it? Yeah, but our budget will take an awful beating later. That is when... shall we say when I begin to look a little conspicuous? When you begin to look conspicuous, that's the time to stop worrying. First, let's give you a thorough physical examination before we examine how you keep your job and still have a baby. All right, I'm all set. Mary, have you ever had any sickness I didn't know about in the operations? Not since you took out my tonsils. Otherwise, I'm all there. But I still want to know how my budget will be all there when the baby starts kicking. When our baby starts kicking, Mary, my agency, the ILO, starts its work. Under international labor agreements, every worker, like you, is entitled to special protection. You'll get six weeks leave before the baby's born and six weeks after, and with full pay, too. And when you're back at work, you will be back because your country has signed the ILO convention which says you've got to be taken back. When you're back on the job, you can even nurse that baby during working hours if you have a mind to. Now, that may not be so important to you, Mary, but listen, I was in Eastern Europe a couple of months ago, and a young mother said to me, Mr. Barkley, my baby's with me all day in the field. You don't know how secure that makes us feel, me and the baby. Mary, does the knowledge that all this is not only possible but actually make you feel more secure? So you see how much is being done for the future citizens of the world? Oh, my, yes. Not that I'd want to take my baby to work, but I guess that's an important consideration for a lot of people. And as for the citizens of the world, literally, those who have no country, the displaced persons. Here's the story of one of those for whom the UN's International Refugee Organization has made a new life. You see, Mr. Danzig, some jobs are much the same in any land. Plowing a furrow, for instance, it's about the same in Yugoslavia or Saskatchewan or Argentina. But in your profession, a man is trained for work in only one country. But I've spent my life in the legal profession. Certainly, I have something to contribute. Why can't the United Nations persuade these immigration authorities to give people like us a chance? I could teach. And how many teaching posts are open in your small field, compared with a number of applicants like yourself? No. We're doing our very best. Believe it. Our International Refugee Organization has helped millions of refugees reestablish themselves. We're constantly meeting with immigration authorities trying to solve your special problem. What to do with trained men whose training simply isn't in demand. And meanwhile, I must sit idle in a camp for a displaced person. Mr. Danzig, if you were to enter Canada or the United States or Australia, for example, you'd be in a country whose entire legal system differed from your native ospreys. You know that. Yes, that's true. Well, Mr. Hillman, what... what can I do? Well, if you're determined not to return to your native country... I am. Then, Mr. Danzig, I'd advise you to take advantage of our vocational training program. You mean learn a completely new trade? Exactly. One you could master rapidly, one which is in great demand all the world over. We'll do our best to prepare you. I see. I never dreamed it would be such a long way back from the slave land. Such a long way. That night, I remembered how my father used to say, Carl, study the ants and you can learn a great deal. See how he will zigzag this way and that going around any obstacle to reach his goal. So, I turned aside my disappointment and went straight to the vocational training section in camp. There, on the bulletin board was a placard saying, Volunteers wanted for our machinist group. I walked inside. Hello there, Mr. Danzig. I see you're taking my advice. Yes, Mr. Hillman. I'm glad you are. Uh, I, I, I want you to meet our instructor, John Swenson. How do you do, Mr. Danzig? I am pleased to meet you. And I'm pleased to see you take up this new line. You should encourage others to volunteer. I mean, well, you're not the youngster, exactly. Not exactly. I'm over 40, Mr. Swenson. Not too old to plead a law court. Do you feel I'm too old to learn the machinist trade? Not if you really put your heart into it. Now, suppose you come over here to the bench and get acquainted with the first of our handy gadgets, the turret lane. very well. Here we are. This is it. How do you do? Gadget. My, you look extremely complicated. Think so, Mr. Danzig? Hardly as complicated as some loadstooth I've read about in the Vienna court. I must say, Mr. Ferret-Lath and I became fast friends. I found he had some annoying eccentricities, but with patience you could learn to live with him quite well. I had taken up this study largely as a matter of expediency, but I became quite enthusiastic about this new work, particularly so when I realized my new trade would help well-production of many things people around us stood in such need of. I found myself boasting about a well-turned milling job just as I had taken pride in a well-turned phrase in the courtroom back in Vienna. Hmm. Pretty hard for a man, I'd say. I don't think I could do it. I'm sure glad I don't have to. I'd like to be able to help those fellows, but I'm grateful to be just a man with a job he can do. A man with a job he can do. Yes. That's what we all want. And each of us has his job, whatever that may be. The UN goes with that, too. For seamen, airmen, workers everywhere. The UN, through its agencies, has made gains in conditions of labor, their safety, their ability to do better jobs. All over the world, experts in health, social welfare, economics, education, are working to make a united and better world. Yes. UN has begun to fulfill its mission to the world, to aid in preserving the peace by uprooting the causes of war. In the four years since the UN Charter has been in effect, great strides have been made in every field to better the lot of each of us. And in the councils where the men of 58 nations meet this year, to decide the diverse issues of the 60-point agenda, to fulfill a sacred trust, is the feeling that not only we, but God and history are sitting in judgment. you have been listening to Charter Day 1949, a program commemorating the fourth anniversary of the United Nations Charters Enforcement. Charter Day 1949 was written by Doris Wynn and directed by Bob Leboer. Don Weidman was in charge of sound. In the cast were Stanley Grill, Bill Johnson, George Bendura, Phyllis Darrow, Sybil Weiss, Mary Best, Steve Brody, and Geneva Helm. Portions of the program were transcribed. This has been a special presentation of your city station. beingonna John White 2005, bothת in the upcoming building becky- fearless Äeter of the low-wooled black in the middle of the mouvementlovู This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.