From the spacious Board of Estimate Room at City Hall, WNYC now broadcasts the transit hearings which will be presided over by William J. McCormick, who is chairman of Mayor Impeletary's three-man mediation committee. I see now that Mr. McCormick is ready and we give the microphone over to William J. McCormick. You notice the committee is appointed by the mayor who acted as a special transit committee to consider a number of serious problems confronting the city in the field of transit. We're a little few minutes late in starting this morning, but we'll try from herein, any meetings, to have them start on time. Today, we'll hear from the various unions and the Board of Transportation in the order of which they signed the Memorandum of Understanding. We'd also like to keep this, any discussions, to the facts of the Memorandum of Understanding. In the Memorandum of Understanding, the Transport Workers Union was the one that signed first. So we'd like to hear now from Mr. Quill or his representative. Mr. Chairman, Quill for I am the unruly of the transport workers union. The Transport Workers Union CIO represents more than 31,000 employees in the Board of Transportation. The records will show that almost 25,000 employees have authorized the Board of Transportation to check off their monthly dues. And approximately 6,000 who have not availed themselves of the check-off pay their monthly dues at the union hall. I see no reason to make a case here for the 40 hours, gentlemen. That case has already been made in hearings before the call committee conducted last February, or February of last year rather. The record, I am sure, of those hearings are available to you. The call committee recommended the 40 hours. And in so doing suggested that because of the poor relationship that existed between the Board of Transportation and the Transport Workers Union, that an outside industrial engineering firm be retained in order to assist both parties in putting into effect the 40 hours. Although the memorandum of understanding, which embodied the coal report, including the retention of the engineers, was signed June 27th of last year, the Board of Estimate of this city did not approve the agreement between the city and the engineers until August 21st, almost two months after the signing of the memorandum of agreement. Despite this long delay, the Board of Transportation stalled the matter even further by not giving final approval or authorization to the engineers to proceed with that study until October the 4th, almost four months after the memorandum of agreement was signed. And we believe, gentlemen, that this delay was unwarranted and inexcusable, and that the Board of Transportation has failed to live up to the spirit and letter of the understanding of agreement, or the memorandum of agreement. We believe that there shouldn't be any further stalling. We feel that the mayor has acted with wisdom here in appointing you gentlemen to bring about a solution to this problem. We have full confidence in you. We feel that you will be able to bring about a solution. And I might say that the memorandum of understanding, of course, was mainly established for the purpose of bringing about a decent labor relationship between the Board of Transportation and the Union, to eliminate for all time the suspicion and the stress that's been harbored by both parties against each other, and to bring about harmony and stability to the transit system. I charge the Board of Transportation with deliberately breaking that agreement. For eight months, they refused to allow us to become a party to the engineering study, although the memorandum of agreement so specified. We endeavored on many occasions since August of last year to get such a meeting, a joint meeting between ourselves, the Board of Transportation, and the engineers. But we were not successful until about four weeks before the engineers' report was published. And I don't have to tell you gentlemen that it was a waste of time to meet with them at such a late date, because actually they were in the process of writing up their report at the time we met with them. I would venture to say, had they allowed us to participate in the study of transition, that the 40-hour week would have been a reality today. We certainly see no reason for any further delay. We believe that the 40-hour week should go in no later than July 1 of this year. Of course, the Board of Transportation will, or may, and I suppose probably will, give you all kinds of excuses why they will be unable to put in the 40 hours by July 1. But let me remind you gentlemen, that the Board of Transportation has already wasted a year, and will attempt to waste another year if they're let. We have full confidence that you gentlemen will attack this problem the way it should be attacked. We are gratified to note the speed with which you got started. And I can assure you that every member of the Transport Workers Union has the utmost confidence that you will resolve this problem with the fastest possible speed. Our general counsel, Mr. O'Donnell, will elaborate more fully on the question before you. But before I introduce Mr. O'Donnell, I would like to introduce to you the international president of the Transport Workers Union, Mr. Michael J. Quill. That was Matthew Gynan. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kiel, Mr. Morgan, I want to express the thanks of our organization, the Transport Workers Union, for the services that you are rendering here. We know how busy you are in your various fields. And for this reason, we do not expect to make a long presentation to prove our case for the 40 hours. Unlike the fact finding of last year, we expect to conclude our case in a matter of an hour or an hour and a half. We think that you are rendering a service to the people of the entire city by attempting to solve this problem in the manner in which we are doing it. The case for the 40 hours have been made already, gentlemen. It has been made by the Transport Workers Union, oh, a long time ago. And it was nailed down last year before the fact finding board. And the necessity of the 40 hours for transit workers in the city of New York was made ever clearer by the report of the fact finding board. The question we are confronted with here today, then, is how soon can the 40 hour week be put into effect for the transit workers of this city? One with no reduction in the present take-home pay. And the other problem we are confronted with is the cost of living, the increase in prices since the Korean War, now almost 12 months old. This is a double-headed problem, the problem of the 43 hours and the problem of an increase across the board in wages. Now, many people ask us, gentlemen, when will the transit crisis be over in the city of New York? And from having worked in the subways myself, as a laborer, and then in one of the departments, I can't say that the transit crisis will ever end in the city of New York. What we can do is try, in a common ground across the table, to put our heads together and try to end the labor crisis and relieve the people of the constant war of nerves. But because of the makeup of New York City, it will be almost impossible to end the overcrowding. Unlike Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, London, or Tokyo, you just haven't the space. And with all respect to Chairman Bingham, who is an engineer himself, for 36 years, I don't see how the overcrowding can be ended. But the people are entitled to some relief from the constant wrangles that we have year in and year out around the wage question. Now, you can have a Second Avenue subway after the powers that be end arguing about finances, and you can relieve a lot of the pressure with the Second Avenue subway if it comes four or five or six or seven years from now. But by then, there will be another 800,000 people waiting to overcrowd that too. And I think in your recommendations, and I don't know if you have power under the mayor's instructions, that something should be done to safeguard and protect the riding public. With the overcrowding as it is now, it is impossible to give the people protection, especially at nighttime, with one motor man and one conductor in a 10-car train. And if there was ever real stupidity performed in city transit, it was to take these guards off the trains. There should be one man in every subway car for the safety and protection of the riding public. And especially should we enter a period of emergency, the death from the atom bomb would be nothing in comparison to the deaths from confusion and stampeding as a result of that. So we come and make a plea to you that as much as possible of the burden should be raised off the shoulders of the people. We are anxious to live up to this memorandum in good faith, Mr. McCormick and gentlemen, but it is a two-way street. The Board of Transportation, I think, were hampered by the engineers. I think the engineers' report was a hodgepodge of double talk that brought no relief to the Board of Search, brought no relief to the people, and certainly brought nothing to the transit workers of this city. I think that the chairman of the board himself and the other engineers of the Board of Transportation, if given a free hand, could have done a much better job. But that's water over the dam now, and we're out to repair whatever damage is done. Since the questions are narrowed down to the question of the 40-hour week and the take-home pay, and since the union is prepared this time, and we are again speed up, but we are prepared this time to speed ourselves up and end our presentation as fast as possible, I believe a report and some relief for the transit workers can be forecoming by July 1. We do not want gentlemen to counterfeit 40-hour week. We do not want a 40-hour week for the already overworked and overstrained and overburdened transit workers of this city. We do not want a group of slide experts to get around some tables and draw up blueprints and charts and schedules that would speed up our workers. We want an honest to God 40-hour week without any strings attached. And some says that some of the transit workers are really not interested in the 40-hour week. They're interested in time and a half after 40 hours, and they'd like to go on working 44 and 46 and 48. That gentleman is not true. We do not want that kind of 40-hour week where men still remain working 48 hours with more take-home to pay as a result of overtime. That would be an impossible situation for our workers and for the Board of Transportation. Now you may ask us where do we stand on the fair problem and the financing. Well, the fair problem is not ours. We do not think it is necessary to raise the fair of the riding public of the city. We think that it should come out of taxation. It should come out of the general funds. When a fireman puts out a fire, he don't ask the victim of the fire to pay per capita tax for putting out the fire. Or when a cop is compelled to strike somebody over the head to maintain law and order, he don't pick the pockets of the victim. They find ways to pay the police and they find ways to pay the firemen and park department and welfare and sanitation and so on down the line. I don't think that the people of this city should become victims of a higher subway fare. In places like Philadelphia and Chicago, where we have fares of 15, 17, and 20 cents, we find out that the riding habits of the people have changed and that the revenue have fallen as a result of the short-haul riders dropping off. I throw this out to you to say that the financing is not our department. The financing is the problem of the Board of Transportation and of the City of New York. I will ask you to take one further note of the terrific gap and the terrific margin that exists between city workers in this day and age, city transit workers, and private bus drivers, where we have a situation right here in Manhattan where men operating private buses with vacations as good as the Board of Transportation, with pensions better than the Board of Transportation, with sick leave better than the Board of Transportation. These same bus drivers are getting 12 and a half cents an hour more than the Board of Transportation are paying in the very same streets for the very same kind of bus and the very same kind of human being behind the wheel. This gap, this discrimination between workers must stop. And we are confident that all three of you gentlemen having dealt with transit before and are thoroughly acquainted with the situation will be able to iron this problem out. That is all I have to say on the matter. I say we want to live up to the memorandum of understanding. We want to be fair and just about this problem. But we have a problem of some 42,000 workers in the operating department and in the clerical department of the Board of Transportation that need relief and they need it now. And if there was ever a time for sound thinking and if there was ever a time for goodwill in this problem it is now. Let's clear up the mess of the 40 hour week before July 1 of this year. Thank you gentlemen. That was Michael Quill who is president of the Transit Workers Union from TWU. And now stepping to our microphone once again is Mr. Matthew Guinan. Introduce our general counsel Mr. John O'Donnell. Gentlemen, I'd first like to ask if it's proper that you gentlemen put on the record your directive from the mayor. I respectfully suggest that because it certainly is of interest to us and I think it's pertinent to our discussion to know before we start the scope of your authority. I haven't seen a copy of it I have read except in the newspapers and frankly I'm not too sure just what the scope of your authority is and I think it should be a matter of record if I may so suggest. Thank you. May I be pardoned for a second while I read it gentlemen? Thank you. Seems to be some delay at the present time. The General Counsel of the TWU, Mr. John F. O'Donnell, is getting ready to speak again. Here he is. Now, gentlemen, one year ago, the Transport Workers Union entered into an agreement with the Board of Transportation of the City of New York. I have copies of that agreement here. And if you gentlemen on the committee don't happen to have copies before you, I'd like to furnish you with copies. You have copies of the Memorandum of Understanding. Now, it's only quite recently that the President of National CIO referred to that document as a splendid advance in the field of public employee labor relations. It is a historic document, gentlemen. And not only did the President of National CIO commend it, but the President of the United States took occasion to commend that Memorandum of Understanding. And I now offer to you, gentlemen, a copy of the letter of President Truman, dated November the 30th, 1950. Now, I start off the discussion about the Memorandum of Understanding by showing to you, gentlemen, that National CIO is proud of it. The Transport Workers Union is proud of it. And we have tried desperately for the past year since we entered into it to live up to it. But just as it takes two to make an agreement, it takes two to keep an agreement. And I will show to you, gentlemen, that that Memorandum of Understanding has been flagrantly violated by the Board of Transportation. Now, you may say that it's not your purpose as a committee here in this case to go into whether or not the Board of Transportation may or may not have violated that Memorandum of Understanding. But it's of the very essence of the problem that you have before you in connection with the 40-hour week. The provision for the transition to the 40-hour week was of the very essence of that Memorandum of Understanding. I assure you, gentlemen, that had that provision not been recommended by the fact-finders, had it not been agreed to by the Board of Transportation, there would not have been any Memorandum of Understanding. There is nothing more basic to our present understanding with the City of New York and with the Board of Transportation than that we are getting the 40-hour week as recommended by the fact-finders. Now, as Mr. Quill and Mr. Guyan have already pointed out to you, we don't today have to make the case for the 40-hour. Over a year ago, two of you gentlemen on this committee participated on the fact-finding committee that recommended the speedy adoption of the 40-hour week for the employees of the New York City Transit System. And that was long delayed. Back in 1937, the federal government enunciated it as a matter of policy for the entire United States the 40-hour week. But, of course, the Fair Labor Standards Act doesn't apply to the Board of Transportation. And the Board of Transportation and its members seem to be geniuses and devising excuses for not complying with policies of laws and for finding ways of avoiding laws that should apply. Now, from 19—even long before 1937, a considerable part of industry in this country was on the 40-hours, especially here in the East. Two of you gentlemen on this committee represent industry. And I ask you gentlemen to think back to when you gave the 40-hours to your employees. And why should the employees of the Board of Transportation be denied that? I just want to make one other comment on that. Two years ago—I believe it's two years ago. It was approximately two years ago. There is another department in the City of New York which furnishes transportation of its sort. And that is the Department of Marine and Aviation. They operate the ferry boats. The present commissioner of the Board of Transportation, Commissioner Manetti, before he was appointed to the Board of Transportation, was commissioner of Marine and Aviation. And while he was commissioner of Marine and Aviation, he gave to the employees of that department the 40-hour week. And if there's any question of finances, if there's any question of whether the nickel pays the cost of operating the ferry boats, I assure you gentlemen, that compared to the size of the operation, your city ferry operation runs a lot deeper than the red than the Board of Transportation. And yet, the employees of the ferry department, a year and a half ago, got the 40-hour week. And I'll come back to that because it's of interest to you to know how that 40-hour week was made effective. I'll tell you now. But I won't have to. I might forget later on. When Commissioner Manetti decided to put that 40 hours into effect, he decided to do it as of a certain date. And they didn't have schedules drawn up. And they didn't have the manpower ready. But he said, those men are entitled to the 40 hours. And on such and such a date, I believe it was May 1950, some date like that. I haven't been able to get the exact date. On that date, it goes into effect. And if any man works in excess of 40 hours after that date, he'll get compensatory time off. That was the agreement. Then after that date, and after the men worked in excess of 40 hours for some period of time, the Department of Marine and Aviation found that they weren't able to give the men the days off. So they paid them retroactively for the time worked in excess of 40 hours. Now, what Commissioner Manetti can do for the employees of the ferry boat certainly ought to be done for the employees of the Board of Transportation. Now, when a year ago the Fact-Finding Committee recommended the 40-hour week, there was only one problem from that time on. There wasn't any question as to whether we were entitled to it. The only question then was, how should it be worked out? Now, we believe, we believe sincerely, that without any outside assistance whatever, the Board of Transportation, had it desired to do so, could have worked out the transition to the 40 hours months ago, and it could have been in effect today, assuming that it didn't even begin until the Fact-Finders brought in their report. Now, I don't for a moment, this union doesn't for a moment, excuse their delay over the years. They should have started that transition years ago. They should have been prepared with their schedules. If they had been a forward-looking management, they wouldn't have had to wait until they were told, go ahead, or ordered practically to give the 40 hours and say, well, my Lord, we haven't done a thing about it. We'll have to draw up new schedules. We'll do this, that, and the other thing. It'll take us an awfully long period of time. We don't excuse that delay, but at least they were under orders a year ago. And I respectfully submit to you gentlemen, that had they been so minded to live up to that memorandum of understanding that they signed, and without any outside engineers, we could have had the 40 hour week in effect today. I intended, I had intended at this point, to read the pertinent excerpts from the fact-finders, the report to the New York City Transit Fact-Finding Board of May 31, 1950. I wonder, gentlemen, have you been given a copy of this report? If you have, then I won't bother you by reading from it now. Two of you were on it, and Mr. McCormick, I'm sure, is well familiar with what is in it. Now, I would draw your attention to page 73, paragraph 4e, which reads, that the necessary planning and rescheduling be done with the assistance and advice of independent, qualified industrial engineers, and that it be approved by the employees or by the dominant unions involved in advance of the effective date. That was the recommendation, gentlemen. That the necessary planning and rescheduling be done with the assistance and advice. That has been interpreted by the Board of Transportation to mean that they should turn the whole thing over to a firm of industrial engineers. The President of the United States makes a lot of very important appointments with the advice and consent of the Senate. And he thought the way the Board of Transportation thinks, he would let the Senate make the appointment. And he approved them. These engineers were to give assistance and advice. They weren't to be used as a dumping ground to dump the whole problem into their lap, while the Board of Transportation sat back for a year and did nothing. We thought a year ago that the idea of having the engineers come in and advise and assist was a very good idea. It would have been a good idea had it been properly used, but it was improperly used. It was used for one purpose only, the bringing in of the industrial engineers. And that was to give the Board of Transportation an excuse to sit back for a year and not do one solitary thing toward accomplishing the 40-hour week. It's all in the hands of the engineers, whose job was to advise and assist the Board. But the Board did nothing. Now, I just want to show you the double dealing that this union is faced with, and which makes it impossible to have peace and stability in New York transit as long as we're faced with this kind of double dealing. We were told that these engineers who made this report were retained as a result of the recommendations of the fact-finding committee. That's what we were told. The fact-finders report is dated May 31, 1950. These two firms of industrial engineers, with their $400,000 retainer, were negotiating with the mayor's committee in March 1950. These engineers were not the men retained pursuant to our agreement to work out the 40-hour week. These engineers were men that had been dealing with Luther Gullick and the mayor's committee long before the report of the fact-finders. And they were tossed some additional duties. In any event, gentlemen, whether you regard that as very important or not, isn't very material. After the fact-finding report came down, recommending the retention of the firm of industrial engineers, we signed this memorandum of understanding on the 27th of June, 1950. Remember the date, gentlemen. And in that memorandum of understanding, the board of transportation, over its signature, over the signature of the mayor of the city of New York, agreed as follows. Page five. The board shall retain—this is Article III, Paragraph I—the board shall retain without delay competent industrial engineers. The board shall retain without delay delay followed delay. Every time a representative of the union asks somebody in the board of transportation, what's the cause of the delay? When are the engineers going to be appointed? And we always got the same song and dance. Well, you know the board of estimate. You know the board of estimate. This has to be approved by the board of estimate. And we can't rush the board of estimate. Well, now we're going to give you some facts about who was responsible for the delay. And the facts, gentlemen, are a matter of record. We signed the—the engineers, according to their own report, were negotiating beginning back in March 1950. But regardless of when they started their negotiations, the board of transportation signed an agreement that without delay they would retain the engineers, and they signed that agreement on June 27th, 1950. And even though negotiations had begun back in March, it wasn't until August 7th, 1950, that the engineers signed a contract with the board of transportation. And that is stated on page 11 of the report of the engineers. An agreement dated August 7th, 1950, was entered into by and between the city of New York acting by the board of transportation. And Day and Zimmerman, Inc. and Coverdale and Colfitts, a partnership with the engineers. And then on the next page, page 12, it says, on August 21st, 1950, the agreement between the engineers and the city became effective, following approval and consent thereto by the board of estimate and delivery to the parties. It took the board of estimates two weeks to approve the agreement. And yet they were the ones who were supposed to be responsible for all this delay. From June 27th, it's now August 21st. And now there's the approval of the board of estimates. And we feel that we're all set to go. I want to give you a history at this point of our difficulties with the board of transportation and with the engineers. Beginning on August 7th, when the board of transportation finally signed the contract with the engineers. On the 9th of August, this union wrote the board of transportation, asking for a meeting with the engineers to begin discussions of the five-day week. On August 11th, we got a letter from the Secretary of the Board of Transportation. This letter that I'm reading from is dated August 11th and it's signed by William Jerome Daly, Secretary of the Board of Transportation. This refers to years of August 9th to Colonel Bingham in the matter of the recommendation of the fact-finding board concerning a proposed five-day, 40-hour week. On Tuesday, August 8th, this board engaged Day and Zimmerman Incorporated and Coverdale and Coal Pits to make a survey of the changeover to a 40-hour week on the New York City Transit System at a total cost of $335,000. That's the letter to the union signed by the board of transportation that on August 8th, they engaged the engineers to do the job. On August 22nd, we wrote to the engineers asking for an appointment to meet with them because we were supposed to cooperate. We were asked by the fact-finding committee to cooperate with the engineers in the planning and rescheduling. We wanted to get started. We have a letter dated August 31st from W. Findlay Downs and George W. Burpee of Day and Zimmerman. Your letter of August 22nd addressed to Day and Zimmerman and a similar letter addressed to Coverdale and Coal Pits, 120 Wall Street has been received. Each letter enclosed a copy of the letter dated August 9th to Mr. Sidney Bingham, chairman of the Board of Transportation, 250 Hudson Street, New York 13th. You state in your letter that your enclosure of the letter to Mr. Bingham deals with the circumstances peculiar to the 40-hour week in the clerical division. At the present time, Day and Zimmerman, Inc. and Coverdale and Coal Pits are organizing the work covered in our contract with the Board of Transportation. Such contract having been just received and therefore effective a few days ago, remember the date of this letter, August 31st, We are therefore not in a position to discuss in detail the subject matter of your letter, but will be glad to meet you at a time that can be mutually and satisfactorily arranged. Now, gentlemen, what's the truth? Were they engaged in August 7th? Were they engaged in August 8th? Were they engaged a few days ago as the engineers wrote to us on August 31st? They were not authorized to go to work by the Board of Transportation until October 4th, 1950. That's page 12 of the engineers report. Now, who's stalling around here? Who's responsible for this delay? A fact-signing report in May, a memorandum of understanding in June. It isn't until August 7th that they finally get around to signing a contract. The Board of Estimates says, okay, it's approved on August 21st. Who held this thing up then until the 4th of October? Why did the engineers try to cover up that delay by not telling us honestly in the letter that they didn't have the authorization to proceed? What dirty work was going on during that period of time when we thought that we had engineers retained without delay to get us a 40-hour week? If you gentlemen want to know the cause of the unrest and the cause of the trouble in these transit lines, you have it. From this type of delay, we can't even get it in writing. We can't get the honest answers from these people. Without delay, back in June, means until October the 4th. I tell you gentlemen that that was a vicious violation of the memorandum of understanding. And that if this union had half the irresponsibility that it's supposed to have, it would have torn the thing up then and thrown it in the face of the Board of Transportation. But we still hope that something would come out of it. We still hope to prevail on them. Even then, last October, to go to work. And gentlemen, it's now June of another year. And those men haven't done one iota of rescheduling. They told us when we met with them just the other week that it'll take us nine months, ten months, a year to reschedule. They've done nothing. Now what are we going to do? We thought the engineers were a forward step. We thought we were getting somewhere. Now we find out that the engineers were nothing but an instrumentality of delay for the Board of Transportation. And there's another excuse for them to do nothing for a year. Well gentlemen, no other year is going by without those men doing something. We have the utmost respect for that memorandum of understanding. We have striven to live up to it. We'll strive to live up to it. But there is nobody, there is no union, can go back to those 40,000 transit workers and say, fellas, wait a little longer. We have exhausted their patience pleading with them to delay. And we just can't do it any longer. And there's no use. You want the facts, gentlemen. And that's what we want to give you. Well, we were supposed, as I have told you, to cooperate with the engineers. To help out in the planning and the rescheduling. See, this union represents the men who work on the lines. They know the job. They know the problems. And we wanted to get busy on this, I told you. Well, in November. They had the green light by this time. Now whatever was supposed to be done that nobody knows about, but which was finally done between the 21st of August and the 4th of October. It was done. And by October 4th, the engineers are hard at work. Now we want to meet with them. On the 16th of November, 1950, we write to Colonel Sidney Bingham, chairman of the Board of Transportation. And on the same day, we send telegrams. Send telegrams to the engineers. And we told them then, almost four months, since almost four months have elapsed, since the industrial engineering firms, and it names them, have undertaken the job of conducting surveys and studies relative to the inauguration of the five-day, 40-hour week in the Board of Transportation, as provided for in the agreement between the Transport Workers Union and the Board of Transportation. We've never run away from that agreement. That's our agreement. We want to have it. And since the agreement provides that the union be a party to the working out and approval of the revised schedules, I am therefore requesting that a joint meeting of the Transport Workers Union, the Board of Transportation, and the engineers be held on Monday, November 27th, with a view toward exploring this whole matter. If the suggested date is unsuitable, will you kindly call my office so that a date satisfactory to all the parties can be arranged? Signed by Matthew Guinan, president of Local 100, on the 16th of November, 1950. On the 20th of November, we get a letter from the chairman of the Board of Transportation, saying that he won't be able to meet with us, he's out of town. And he was sent out of town, gentlemen, on a very important mission. He was asked by the mayor of the city of New York, at the request of the mayor of St. Louis, to go out to St. Louis and advise them on their transit problems in St. Louis. At the same time that this city was paying $400,000 to a firm of industrial engineers to advise Chairman Bingham how he should run transit in New York City. On November the 21st, we get a very nice letter on engraved stationery from Dan Zimmerman. And all of us have engagements, they say. But that date we asked for in the telegram, we asked for a date on November 27th. All of us have engagements that preclude a meeting on the date suggested. I will advise you just as soon as I can arrange for a mutually satisfactory time for the three of us. In the meantime, please let me know what day of the week and hour would be best for you. You will not receive a reply to your letter to Mrs. Bingham and Coverdale and Coalpitz, as they have asked me to write you on behalf of the three of us. We did get a reply from Commissioner Bingham, they didn't know about it. We didn't get a reply from Coverdale and Coalpitz. But they never read another letter. That was November. Times were changing. Cost of living had gone up. We were stuck with a memorandum of understanding that we wanted to live up to. But the Board of Transportation didn't seem to want to live up to at all. Yet, because we were to get the 40 hours, because we were to get the 40 hours, the fact finder said, that period of transition would take a little time. And we shouldn't make any new demands on the Board for a period of two years, because we were getting the 40 hours. Now we didn't have the 40 hours. Cost of living had gone up. We go over to the Board and said, what are you going to do about it? And they said, oh, you have a memorandum of understanding. You mustn't raise any other issues for two years. You see, we agreed to that in order to get the 40 hours. Now we have neither the 40 hours nor the cost of living. Well, on the 6th of January, we met with the Board of Transportation. We asked them to do two things. First, we said, gentlemen, the report of the fact finders was based on the cost of living back in December of 1949. It has gone up. The cost of living has gone up very substantially since then. We asked them, as we had asked other transit companies successfully, as we had asked the Philadelphia Transportation Company, as we had asked Pan American Airways, as we had asked American Airways, as firms across the country have done, voluntary reopening because of the unexpected change in circumstances. In January, we went to the Board of Transportation and we said, gentlemen, we know we have a memorandum of understanding for two years. But something has happened that none of us foresaw. Would you be good enough to consider a reopening for an adjustment of wages to meet the increase in the cost of living? We didn't ask for anything to make our fellows better off than they had been a week before, a month before, or a year before. But their standard of living had been dropping. The value of the money that the Board of Transportation was giving them was getting less and less. We said, please restore it. Put them back in the position they were. That is request number one. And request number two was, when are we going to meet with the engineers? When are we going to see the engineers? They said they would think on the request for the reopening. Well, I won't put words in their mouth. There are three commissioners. And I think it was Commissioner Sullivan who did most of the talking that day. And he always talked about the memorandum of understanding except only when we were talking about the 40 hours. When we talked about the 40 hours, he put the book down and he said, well, you know what a tough job that is. But when we talked about the increase in pay, he raised up the memorandum of understanding. Now, we were promised a meeting with the engineers. That was in January. What's the next step in our efforts to get to sit down with the engineers? It's March. It's the 2nd of March. We have exhausted letter writing. We have now taken a sending telegram. And we sent a telegram on the 2nd of March to Bingham, Sullivan, and Minetti, the three commissioners of the Board of Transportation. We are there, and I'll read the last of it. Well, I'll read the whole thing. We met with you in January and we requested a reopening on discussion of wages and hours in our memorandum of agreement. It is our understanding at that meeting that the Board would conduct a study as to the cost of our proposals. And we have been expecting to hear from you to discuss further this whole question. As it stands now, approximately seven weeks remain within the 10-month time limit provided for in the memorandum of agreement. And we have no more knowledge now of the progress of the 40 hours in this application than we did prior to the signing of the memorandum of agreement. We are therefore requesting a meeting with yourselves, the engineers, and our organization as quickly as time will permit in order that we may be able to fully explain to our people as impatience grows by the hour. Now, this wasn't something we drafted to read to you gentlemen. This was a telegram to the Board of Transportation in March, almost two months after our January meeting where they said, we'll let you know the cost, and we'll arrange a meeting with the engineers. Nothing has happened. Nothing has happened, and it's March. A year has gone by from the time we presented our case to the fact-finding committee, and nothing has happened. We got a reply to that one. We got a reply to that one. We got a reply to that one. We got a reply to that one. March 12th, signed by William Jerome Daly, Secretary of the Board of Transportation. I am going to give you, gentlemen, I'll read you the last paragraph, and then I'll give you copies of the letter. Remember, especially Mr. Morgan and Mr. Keel, who were on that fact-finding board, who were anxious that the union should cooperate with the Board of Transportation, with the engineers to work out the planning, the rescheduling of the transition. I have read you a history of what we tried to do to cooperate. Finally, on March 12th, we get the blunt answer from the Board of Transportation. Until the report of the engineers is received, no useful purpose would be served by a discussion with you of the method or program of transition. It took them until March 12th to tell us to go to hell, and that's what it amounts to us. Now, I'm going to give you copies of this whole letter, gentlemen, so you can keep for yourself what cooperation lies. Now we have the story. There's no useful purpose, as said, talking to you, the union, our employees, until we get the report of the engineers. We're not even going to be considered. Well, we still have the memorandum of understanding and would still like to live up to it. But we still had a responsibility to 40,000 transit workers. And that, gentlemen, is our fundamental responsibility as representatives of the Transport Workers Union. The officers of the Transport Workers Union have to do a job for their employees. That's why they're officers. I ask you, gentlemen, any one of the three of you, what would you do in the face of that sort of thing? Well, we organized a demonstration, demonstration number one. That was the one on the 14th of April, around the new building of the Board of Transportation over in Jay Street. On a Saturday afternoon, nobody had to take time off from work, violate any treasonable laws to attend that one. So the building of the Board of Transportation was ringed around by men carrying signs on the afternoon of Saturday, the 14th of April. And do you know, gentlemen, that on the 16th of April, two days afterwards, we had our first meeting with the engineers? Now, who is it that puts a premium on demonstrations? Who is it that puts a premium on stoppages of work and on strikes? These people show that it's the only way you can get anything out of it. We were sending telegrams and letters for the best part of a year, and we got nowhere. Two days after a demonstration, we had a meeting with the engineers. Well, we didn't get very far with the engineers. But at that demonstration on the 14th of April, we did more than demand a meeting with the engineers. The union put a time limit on the engineers' report, and that time limit was May 1st. You see, when the fact finders handed down their report, putting a 10-month time limit on the engineers, surely it was the intention of everybody that that was the outside. But that's ample time to work this thing out. We felt that if there was any good faith at all in the circumstances, we would have had a report down in three months or four months. But once you give this Board of Transportation a date like 10 months, they won't do a thing to that 10-month deadline. And all we had when we did meet with them was 10 months, 10 months, 10 months, and not 10 months from the fact finders' report. 10 months from the time that the Board of Estimates retained them. Well, the union put a deadline on the engineers' report and said it's May 1st. Well, then we had a meeting with the Board of Transportation. And Commissioner Bingham told us that the engineers were having a little difficulty. They were rushing very fast now to get out the report. But he suggested to the union, or he told us, rather, that the report would be down May 23rd. All right? What's another three weeks? We wait till May 23rd. And this wonderful document is born on May 23rd. And on the very first page, no, not the first page, the second page, the third page in which anything is printed, is page 7 of the report. It says, Numerous meetings and conferences have been held among the engineers and with various members of the Board of Transportation, its executive personnel, and the operating organization. We have received the full cooperation of the Board, all of its executive, financial, and operating personnel, wherever they were contacted, and with representatives of the several unions. It doesn't make much sense, but I think we have a fair idea what it means. Then, move over to page 12. They were getting out the, this, this of course, the board, and the board, and the board, and the board of the board, and the board. And, we have received the full cooperation of the board, all of its executive, financial, and operating personnel, wherever they were contacted, and with representatives of the several unions. And, we have received the full cooperation of the board, and, of course, the board, and the board, and the board. Then, move over to page 12. They were getting out the, this, this of course, is the report of a firm of engineers who are experts in economies. They were to make a study of the operations of the Board of Transportation to see, and what way could the operation be operated, wrong, more economically. And, the only way they could come out was to take some of the porters out of the toilets, so there would be some lowering of the standards of cleanliness, to lengthen the headway between trains, to take the conductors off, take the, the, the platform men off the platform. So, I'll come to that, if I have the time. But, these experts in economy go on the N4 pages. What I read you was on page 7. I came to page 12, and I felt that as I went along, I'd always come to something new and interesting. Remember what I read before. Numerous meetings and conferences have been held among the engineers and with various members of the Board of Transportation, its executive personnel, and the operating organization. We have received the fullest cooperation of the board, all of its executive, financial, and operating personnel, wherever they were contacted, and with representatives of the several unions. We are deeply grateful to all who have fully cooperated and made the report possible. Oh, I come over to page 12. What do I read? Numerous meetings and conferences have been held among the engineers and with various members of the Board of Transportation, its executive personnel, and the operating organization. We have received the fullest cooperation of the board and all of its executive, financial, and operating personnel, wherever they were contacted, and with representatives of the several unions. We are deeply grateful to all who have fully cooperated and made the report possible. These are the experts in the economy. This is the great engineer's report. If I had read it all, I'm sure I'd have come across it a couple more times, but at that point, there wasn't any point in going any further. Now, these engineers were to assist in the planning and rescheduling. I wonder, by the way, have you gentlemen got a copy of this document? You have. I hope you enjoy it. I hope you find somewhere in it, somewhere in it, somewhere in the rescheduling. After these engineers have finished their work on the operational end, the Board of Transportation, who was relying all the time on their expert advice and assistance, told us when we met with them after the report came down, well, it'll take us nine months to a year now to reschedule. And the sad part of it all is, gentlemen, that when we did meet with the Board of Transportation, oh, the newspaper told the truth. When we met with the Board of Transportation, the second meeting after that we had with them, after this engineer's report came down, Commissioner Sullivan took the report and he put it on the floor. He said, let's forget about it. He put it away on the table first, and when that wasn't satisfactory, I remember he put it on the floor. Isn't that right, Van Matty? So we were back where we had started from. We had had nothing accomplished in a year gone by. Now, why have I told you all of this? What help is it going to be to you now? I'm telling you this because I think I should show to you the complete futility of giving this Board of Transportation any further time within which to effectuate the 40 hours. They'll ask for time for rescheduling, time for this, time for that. They'll have to draw up an estimate of cost. They told us in January 6th, I think it was, we'll let you have the figures on the cost. We didn't get the figures on the cost on April or May, and then we had to fight for them, and then we got the wrong figures. They're going to have all kinds of reasons for delay, all kinds of excuses. They'll probably want to hire some more engineers now or something. Gentlemen, I respectfully submit to you that the record shows that we, the Transport Workers Union, have done our part in trying to effectuate the transition to the 40 hours as smoothly as possible. As smoothly and as quietly and as quickly as possible. The record is clear. We did everything we could to try to cooperate with these people, and we got nowhere and we got nothing. We had a two-year agreement, and we're going to be stuck with it. Gentlemen, fundamental to that two-year agreement is the 40 hours. It was recommended by the FactFinder. And there is no excuse in the wide world for any more delay. That's why we ask you to recommend that the 40-hour week be made effective July 1, 1951. And if they have, that'll put the heat under the schedule department over there. They won't sit around until December and next January and next July before they come out with schedules. They can do the same thing as Commissioner Minetti did in the Department of Marine and Aviation. They can put it into effect July 1. And if they do have any problems with their schedule, let them be penalized to the extent of paying the men after July 1 for the time that they work in excess of 40 hours. Now, Mr. Quill has told you, and I want to tell you again as I mentioned that, that we do not propose any kind of a situation that will mean an overtime practice where the men will continue to work in excess of 40 hours and collect overtime for hours worth in excess of 40. That is not our purpose. We want the flat 40 hours and no overtime. Gentlemen, we have a problem now as to how the transition is going to be accomplished. We have shown you gentlemen beyond question that we cannot rely on this Board of Transportation. We can't do it. You gentlemen cannot ask us to do it. We respectfully submit that to you. You have got to tell them when it goes into effect. And when it goes into effect, let them be penalized then for any further delay. They have no reason in the wide world to cry about a temporary overtime situation from July 1 to maybe July 15 or maybe July 20. It oughtn't to take them any longer. They have no reason to cry about overtime penalty in that situation because it's their delay for the last year that's responsible for it. Now, before I pass from the 40 hour week to another point that I want to make, I would like to call your attention to the public position in this situation. The public position as represented by the newspapers. First of all, as to the 40 hours. I think they are completely unanimous that we are entitled to the 40 hours and that we're entitled to it now. The Times. On the 3rd of January, I believe, at the date 1951. I'll just read one sentence from that. It was agreed that a report of industrial engineers on the necessary details for establishment of a 40 hour week be made within 10 months after retention of such engineers. Just reading that as a commentary on the engineers report, if you find out that there's a program in that report, you have found out something that nobody else has found out. Now, on the 1st of May, 1951, the World Telegram ran an editorial. And I wouldn't say that the World Telegram has leaned over backwards to be nice to TWU or to Mr. Quill. It's headed the Transit Workweek. And it says the mayor's transit fact-finding board found a year ago that the city was not giving the 42,000 transit workers a square deal on working hours. Found out a year ago that the city was not giving the 42,000 transit workers a square deal. And they're still getting a dirty deal from the Board of Transportation. And they'll continue to get it until you gentlemen take the necessary action. It, that's the mayor's transit fact-finding board, declared that the city should catch up with the 40 hour workweek pattern, followed in the main by private industry and by a majority of transit lines in other large cities. Michael J. Quill, head of the Transport Workers Union, is on solid ground, a strangely unfamiliar location for him, when at the top of his voice, he agrees with the 40 hour week findings of that board. Michael J. Quill, head of the Board. Just because I read it doesn't necessarily mean we agree with it. This is sort of a admissions against interest. Michael J. Quill, head of the Board of Transportation, is on the 22nd of May. The Board of Transportation is expected to have a new problem in its lap tomorrow, when engineers hired 10 months ago to advise on ways to install a 40 hour week make the report. This engineering study was undertaken as a feature of the memorandum of understanding between board and union that became effective July 1, 19th. In 1950, and that binds the Transport Workers Union to refrain for two years from strikes. That's how they all described the memorandum of understanding, the one that binds the Transport Workers Union to do not to strike. You never find anything in it, though, about what it binds the Board of Transportation to do. The transit workers received at once a substantial pay rise as part of the bargain. Although no fixed timetable was feasible for putting in effect the 40 hour week, good faith requires that it be arranged as promptly as possible. That was in May. The 48 hour, 6 day week is out of debt on the American scene, and we cannot expect the workers in the transit system to ignore what has long since happened in factories, stores and offices. Nor can we, the travelling public, expect these employees to work an extra eight hours to subsidise our subway ride at the same old fare. There are all kinds of inequities within and without city employment. Some employees within the transit system already have a somewhat shortened work week, not because they are more deserving, we assume, but because it could be granted without too great inconvenience. The report of Merit Wire's Fact-Finding Board on May 31, 1950 pointed out how essential it will be in the complicated changeover to a shortened work week to have cordial and sympathetic relations between labour and management. We regret to say, and this is the New York Times talking, I'll hold it a minute. There has been little evidence that the Board of Transportation has modernised its attitude toward the men who work for it, or that the people who work for it. Or that there is any of the voluntary consultation between management and union that might promise something better in labour relations than an armed truce. The engineers report will offer an opportunity for Chairman Bingham to invite consultation. We're still waiting for the invitation. We hope that new economies and efficiencies will so greatly reduce the cost of the 40-hour week that a fare rise will not be necessary, but it is well to remember that state law specifies July 1 as the only date when fares can be raised. July 1. You know, the New York Times was the first one that raised the July 1 deadline in this situation. The Daily News, Wednesday, May 23rd. Rapid transit in New York City is long overdue, we think, and some reforms from the cross ties on up appear to be now in the works. The Board of Transportation some time ago retained a couple of prominent engineering firms, etc. Yesterday's document dealt chiefly with ways and means of achieving a 40-hour work week on all the lines, something which the city is morally, indeed almost legally obligated to do. The 40-hour week is one of the chief objectives of CIO Transport Workers Union President Michael J. Quill. While we don't often see eye to eye with Quill, we've long been convinced that he is right on the score. I'm quite sure a lot of these newspapers are very anxious that we get the 40-hour week right away, because from then on there won't be an agreement on anything. From that time on, they won't have anything to say good about Quill. Right now, as long as we don't have the 40-hours, they're in a dilemma, because they can't, they can't, when he hollers for the 40-hours, they just can't knock him on that. So they say, please give him the 40-hours quick and we won't have any more problems. We'd be glad to see him get the shorter week for the great majority of rapid transit employees who are still working 45 to 48 hours. The New York Times again, on the 24th of May, the industrial engineers have brought in their report to the Board of Transportation. The 40-hour work week can be arranged. The cost will not be excessively great if, and this is a big if, management, labor, and the writing public will cooperate in operating economies that can save upwards of $10 million a year. The 40-hour week has to come, this is the New York Times, and it will be both unjust and foolish for the Board of Transportation to drag its feet. The Board will have to get the go-ahead from City Hall, because a larger deficit appears certain. One way of straightening out the books, at least in part, would be to move the Transit Police over into the city's police department. That is logical anyhow. Anyway, it does not, however, solve the question of more revenue, which must come either from higher taxes or higher fares, or the still greater economies of operation, which the engineers hope to recommend in a later report. Talking about the police, the Transit Police. There was one thing we didn't show up in writing, and that was moving the Transit Police out of the Board of Transportation into the regular police department. That was something that the fact-finders recommended to the City of New York. And that recommendation is on page 73. The Transit Police be made part of the regular city police department. The salaries and other expenses of policing the Transit System are not properly chargeable to Transit Operations. Well, they still charge the Transit Operations. The New York Times again this year said, you shouldn't charge up the cost of the Transit Police to the Board of Transportation. But they do. I happened to be in Klein's apartment store the other day, and they had a big sale on boys' watches up on the second floor, and up there there was a line, or about 10,000 people in it, and it was being policed. The traffic up on the second floor in Klein's was being regulated by regular members of the New York City Police Department. Now, if the regular members of the New York City Police Department can regulate traffic on the second floor of Klein's department store, they ought to be able to regulate traffic down on the subways without charging up to the subway system, the cost of policing its own subways. Then we have an editorial in the Herald Tribune. Well, it just says under the heading, Mr. Quill stirs trouble, the city's transit employees are entitled to a 40-hour, five-day week. That is general practice in other cities and indeed in all American industry. The New York Times, May 29th. On June, and this is an editorial that I would commend to your attention, gentlemen. On June 27th, 1950, the city's Board of Transportation and the Transport Workers Union signed a memorandum of agreement that granted an 11-cent pay rise to transit employees, this rise to be effective last July 1. This memorandum also provided for hiring industrial engineers to study and report on a program for achieving a five-day, 40-hour week, quote, for all employees, now having a scheduled work week in excess of 40 hours, close quote. This report was to be based upon the following premise, and we now quote the memorandum. That in planning the transition, it be understood that present earnings, exclusive of the general increase recommended above, will be maintained or closely approached, and that the 11-cent general increase be applied in partial satisfaction of this requirement, close quote. This memorandum of agreement was founded upon the Cold Keele fact-finding report of May 31, 1950, which said in part, quote, quote, this 11-cent increase is to be treated as a payment on account of the eventual cost of the 40-hour week. When the 40-hour week goes into effect, the earnings, which should be sought to be preserved so far as possible, will be those at present hourly wage rates, not at present rates plus the increase we recommend. When the increase in hourly rates we recommend is added to weekly earnings in the current 48-hour week, the weekly earnings will be in the top range of such earnings. To require such enlarged earnings to be maintained when the work week is reduced by one day would impose too great a burden on the city, and one not warranted by the transit industry pattern. That, you see, is the Times quotation from the Cold Keele report. Now what the Times says. This is the contract. And from a hard, legalistic viewpoint, the city can say to the union, this is what you signed a year ago and now live up to it. But from a realistic, humane point of view, how can we, the public, employers of these men working on our subways or driving our buses, say to them that their take-home pie is going to be cut back to a June 1950 level? Let us not forget that this 11 cent hourly pay rise was granted before the cost of living increase that began with the invasion of Korea. Its benefits have since been swallowed up by an 8% rise in the cost of living. The conditions attached to the 40-hour week transition have been rendered untenable by the course of events. But that doesn't alter the justice of the union demands for a 40-hour week. The union, of course, has its responsibilities too. It must cooperate in real economies or the shorter work week is impossible. The Times might ask us or tell us who we're going to cooperate with. It must refrain, the union must refrain from muddying an already difficult situation with new demands. Let us use what is good in the engineer's report and get on with the 40-hour week. That's the New York Times on the 29th of May, 1951. Oh, I have another one here from the World Telegram. Do you have any more of those? No, I don't. No. Do you have any more of those? No, I don't. No. Do you have any more of those? No, I intend to have some copies made, gentlemen, and deliver them to you. No, I don't propose to take too much longer. I don't think that there's any question in anybody's mind. I could also write a quote from the Hale Tribune and from others of the newspapers that have seen the utter impossibility of asking these employees of the transit system to go back to their earnings of more than a year ago. Now, the New York Times reported in a matter of news this morning that a 13% pay rise as seen as the policy of the New Wage Stabilization Board. Now, we got 11 cents a year ago from the Fact Finders. That 11 cents was the first increase after July of 1948. The cost of living has risen so tremendously since June of 1948 to the present time that, well, it would be utterly unrealistic to recommend, to continue the recommendation that seemed to be all right before Korea, that the 11 cent increase be used to offset part of the cost of the, uh, the, uh, transition of the 40-hour week. Now, I have a, um, some figures here. Oh, I had them. I have them. And as all of you gentlemen, I'm sure know Mr. McCormick. I'm watching that clock too, sir. Uh, from your knowledge of transit, Mr. McCormick, and the knowledge that Mr. Morgan has acquired, and has, uh, capacity last year that Mr. Keel has acquired over the years, there is a key rate in the local transit industry. And the key rate is the rate of the one-man operator, the operator of the one-man car. Now, before we got the 11 cents a year ago, the New York, the bus driver, or the trolley operator employed by the city of New York, was getting $1.44 an hour. Now, let's forget about the 11 cents he got altogether. He was getting the $1.44 in December of 1949. And it was the December 1949 figures on cost of living that were available when we made our presentation to the fact-finders in February of 1950. And our, our, our whole calculations were based on the December 1949 course of living. Now, on $1.44 an hour, for 48 hours, the bus driver, before he got the 11 cents, was taking home $69.12 a week, 48 hours. Now, with the wage stabilization approval of 13%, which seems to be obvious, and which is called for by the increase in the cost of living, that same one-man operator would have to take home $78.10 a week to be as well off as he was when he was getting the $1.44. He'd be no better off than $78.10. That's what he would need to have to be in the same position. Now, the 11 cents that we got gives him $74.40. They're actually $3.70 a week now in buying power less than he had in the month on which we based our case before the fact-finders. And if you take away the 11 cents, you would put him in a position of $12 a week below what he was earning, approximately $12 in December of 1949. We have asked the Board of Transportation for an increase of 10% in our take-home pay. That 10%, remember, with the 11 cents, the bus driver now for 48 hours gets $74.40 a week. I respectfully submit to you, gentlemen, that that is not a living wage. For a man who has to drive a bus on the streets of the City of New York today, when you take out his pension and his Social Security and all the other deductions, $74.40 is not a living wage. We have asked the Board of Transportation for a 10% increase. It would bring them up to $81.84 gross before pensions, before taxes of any sort. And I respectfully submit, and the Union submits to you, gentlemen, that a wage of $81.84 a week is not out of line for the man who has to operate a bus on the streets of New York City. We respectfully submit to you that it's no more than a fair wage. It's certainly not an excessive wage. And we urge you to recommend that wage in making your report. It's 10%. It's the 10%, not the 13%, but it's a 10% increase on top of what you gentlemen, Mrs. Morgan and Keel, decided a year ago was fair on the basis of the December 19th. And that was the December 1949 cost of living. And if you want to go over into the maintenance department, the highest paid mechanic on the Board of Transportation, except for one special group, gets $1.70 an hour today. That's the lowest mechanic rate, I believe, in transit. And that's paid by the Board of Transportation of the City of New York to its mechanics. They don't call them mechanics. They don't call them mechanics because they don't want to pay them what they pay the mechanics and the other departments of the City of New York. I don't propose now to go into a wage presentation, but I thought you might be interested in knowing what a top-ranking mechanic gets working for the Board of Transportation. Now, no, not quite, sir. No, I wasn't the one who was late getting started, gentlemen. You told me I'd have 12 o'clock, but you were supposed to start at 10. May I have the benefit of... I think I'd be finished at 12 o'clock yet. Now, I notice in this letter that you got from the mayor, that in this letter there's a reference to leapfrog pursuit between the publicly and privately operated lines, which might be brought to an end. Well, I don't know what fact-finding committee found that there was any leapfrog pursuit between the public and private lines in New York City. It's been disgraceful, gentlemen, for years that the City of New York, with the roughest traffic problems, with the highest cost of living, that its transit employees should be so far down the scale on transit wages. What this union has done is to jack them up one at a time, devoting some months to the private lines, using the crowbar, the threat of strike, or whatever is available to try to get the private lines up a little bit. When you get them up a little bit, move over to the public lines, try to jack them up a little bit. But leapfrogging all the time, they're down in the mire and mud. They're down at the bottom of the wage scale, not up at the top. There's no leapfrogging being done here, gentlemen. There'll be no leapfrogging done at $1.55 an hour for a bus driver in the City of New York, or $1.67 an hour either. There's some problem in the maintenance department on the reduction to 40 hours, because not all of the maintenance employees work 48 hours. Approximately 7,000 of them work 48 hours, about 8,000 of them work 45 hours, and about 500 of them work 44 hours. These are mechanics. General wage, top wage is the $1.70 rate. We'll use that as a key rate. The maintainer rate of pie. They call them maintainers, not mechanics. Now, we're asking, gentlemen, and we believe it's the only practical solution, that these men be reduced to 40 hours, and they can be reduced to 40 hours immediately. There's no problem with rescheduling there, nor is there any problem with very much additional cost in maintenance either. But when they're reduced to the 40 hours, they should be reduced at the rate of 48 of 40. The top rate now is $1.70. It's inordinately low. It's a far cry from the $2.06 that's paid to the mechanic in San Francisco on the municipal railway. The municipality of San Francisco can pay $2.06 to its mechanics. What justification is there for the $1.70 in the boat of transportation? Now, the 48-hour men are entitled to the 40-hour week without a reduction in take-home pay. If you give the 44-hour men 44 for 40, and the 45-hour men 45 for 40, you would then wind up by having three different rates of pay for the same civil service title of maintainer. Now, historically, I'd say that would be just unrealistic, that a man would get X cents an hour if he worked in the barn that's on the 44-hour week, and he would get Y cents an hour if he worked in the barn that used to be on 48. The car maintainer is one title, and we want to come out with a one-wage rate. And we respectfully submit that the 48 for 40 should apply in maintenance, and that the adjustment should be made in the 44 and 45 hours accordingly. And there's another reason for it, and a very important reason. Historically, the rapid transit motor man has gotten the same rate of wages as the car, as the maintainer A, the top mechanic. The top mechanic gets $1.70, whether he works 44, 45, or 48. The motor man gets $1.70. Now, in the transition down, the motor man will get 48 for 40. The 48-hour mechanic gets 48 for 40. Now, as a 45-hour mechanic got 45 for 40, you would create just an impossible situation, because the only reason why he would wind up with a different hourly rate, and you can't have it in a civil service title. The rate would be a personal rate, run according to his name. There's no other justification for it. In the clerical department, we have a problem. The cashiers, for instance, there are a group of people on five and a half days, and there is no earthly reason for bringing them in that extra half day. It's just a stubborn attitude on the part of the board. They don't want to give any reduction in the work week to anybody. Those fellows should be on five hours, five days. Now, there's an additional problem there. Because they work them five and a half days, the day is so short that they can't get their work done. They work them overtime. Those men have... How many thousand hours overtime? Three thousand. They have up to three thousand hours of overtime accumulated since the first of this year that they're never going to get one way or another. One way or another, they're never going to get it. They're working over in excess of the regular work week. They're working overtime. They're in the clerical department, and they're never going to get those hours back. They're supposed to get time off in lieu of it. They're not going to get it. Now, gentlemen... We don't... We didn't need... We didn't need all the time that we spent. I didn't need all the time that I spent on this presentation, probably. Because most of this is old stuff to all of you. But I did want you to get the history of what has gone on for the past year to show the efforts that we went to, to work out in a cooperative atmosphere, and a cooperative atmosphere, to work out in a cooperative atmosphere, and all of the things that we've done. We've got no cooperation from anybody. We're still as far from the 40 hours, except for the appointment of your committee as we were a year ago. Gentlemen, I urge on you, in all fairness and decency, you cannot delay us any longer. It's perfectly practical and reasonable and proper for you to order the 40-hour week as of July 1st. And if there's any problem then about rescheduling, that's a penalty that the stalling of the Board of Transportation for the past year can't be justified, falling on the board. Now, just one thing. You may ask me... You might want to ask me, though I'm waiting until 12 o'clock, so you won't have the time. Where is the money going to come from to pay the cost of the jump to the... of the transition to the 40 hours? I don't have to answer that question because the fact-finders... We made our case on that to the fact-finding committee, and here is what the fact-finders said on page 67. Insofar as an employer is called upon to eliminate substandard conditions for his workers, financial inability is not a factor entitled to any appreciable weight. Sure, there's a cost problem involved, but the employees of the Board of Transportation have been shouldering the burden for years of working excessive hours at low rates of pay. And it will be utterly unreasonable. I know that you gentlemen wouldn't have the heart to do it, to suggest that because the city has some financial problems now, that these men who have borne the burden for so long should be asked to bear it any longer. July 1st gentlemen is a reasonable and practical deadline. Let the Board of Transportation go to work for a change. Let them get up their schedule. If they can't have them by July 1st, alright, let them pay some retroactive overtime for a little while. It will only take three or four weeks altogether if they hustle and work. But for heaven's sake, don't suggest any more engineers. Don't suggest anything more like that, that these men will use for just further delay. I thank you very much. Thank you very much. That was John F. O'Donnell, the general counsel of the transportation workers of the CIO. And now the chairman of this meeting, Mr. William J. McCormick, the chairman of the three-man mediation board rises, and he is going to say something. Michael, Donald, and thank you very much for expressing yourself that way. And it was nice to hear, Mike, that somebody had said a good word for you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. We now like to hear from Local 1056, the Amalgamated Association of Street Electrical Railway and Motor Coach employees of America. Thank you very much. And that will make room for some of the boys to come in. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. re-go over the ground or re-cover the ground that has been covered here this morning. I am confident that you gentlemen are fully aware of the transit problem that has confronted the Board of Transportation for some time in the past. But I would like to take this opportunity to review just quickly the amalgamated position in what had been expected as a result of the fact-finding Board's hearings held a year ago. We appeared at that time and presented our case for the 40-hour week and adjustment in wages and other improvement in working conditions. And after long hearings, and two of you gentlemen were members of that panel, we received the report of the fact-finding committee. With that report as a basis, we met with the Board of Transportation and negotiated what is known as the Memorandum of Understanding. We believed at that time that that Memorandum of Understanding might well be considered the Magna Carta of the transit workers of the City of New York. It proved possibly to be that. For just as the Magna Carta was entered into reluctantly, it seems, too, this Memorandum of Understanding was entered into reluctantly by certain officials of the City of New York. For we expected full and complete adherence to that agreement. We expected that the Board and the City of New York would live up to not just the letter, but the spirit of the agreement. And we entered into that two-year term with high hopes of improved conditions and a better understanding with the Board. And we did, I must admit, for a time, enjoy improvements in labor relations under that Memorandum of Understanding. And we are grateful to the fact-finding board for assisting and bringing about that step in labor relations with the Board of Transportation. But the Memorandum of Understanding was never, it seems, intended to be fully abided by. It was expected that they could dangle before us vague promises, promises of things to come, that they could forever hold the 40-hour week, hold it off, if possible, to maybe 1952, when it could be again used at the expiration of this Memorandum of Understanding for possibly bargaining purposes. But the other sections, the other phases of the Memorandum of Understanding were very clearly pointed out to us, and it was clearly understood that we were expected to accept our responsibilities under that memorandum and to live up to the letter of everything in it, except the spirit, the intent of the 40-hour week provisions. We, in the amalgamated, have lived up to the terms of the, to the letter, to the spirit, to every term and every provision of that agreement. We intend to go on living up to it. We are here today not to press a case for the 40-hour week that has already, we believe, been given to us. We are here today urging that you call upon the city and the proper responsible officials of the city of New York to assume their responsibilities as they expect us to assume ours, to be as responsible as they expect we leaders of organized labor scattered over this far-flung system, and not to use tricks, not to use reports of engineers, ridiculous reports at that to delay what was purely and positively, we believe, intended at the time the fact-finding board wrote their report. We don't go back and procrastinate and delay by saying we can't get meetings of our members. We're expected to call our membership together and come to decisions quickly. We're expected many times to go back to them with things that are not pleasant and are not to their liking. But we do that in order to fulfill the moral obligation as well as the legal obligation that we expected to live under in that memorandum. Now we ask you to recommend the date that this board of transportation will be either obliged to put in effect the 40-hour work week and if it is not possible for them to schedule by July 1, place such penalties upon them that it will hurry them so that their scheduled department will be under that much greater pressure to earlier effectuate this 40-hour week for we are not looking for made overtime. We're not looking for created overtime beyond the 40-hour work week. We want 40 hours, eight a day, five days and those two days with our families and we trust to your judgment and to your knowledge of conditions today, the economic conditions. We expect that with that you will adjust the wage to a point where it will enable us to meet at least in part the living costs of living that we have experienced since the fact-finding board delivered its report. Gentlemen, we appreciate too the time and your valuable time and services in this regard. We don't believe it was necessary to take this much of your time to bring you here today. We think that you have had ample information on this question. We are appreciative and we trust that we may have an early report, I think. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're now going to recess and adjourn until 2 o'clock. Well, our final witness was James Gormley who was the international vice president of 726, 1056 and 1397 of the Amalgamated Association of Street, Electric Railway and Motorcoach employees of the AF of L. He spoke of the Memorandum of Understanding entered into by the Amalgamated wholeheartedly but said that the board never fully abided by it but he claimed that Amalgamated had lived up to it. He asked the Mediation Board to stop delay by the Engineers and the Board of Transportation. He urged also that penalties be put upon the board to effect a 40-hour work week if the rescheduling is not carried out by July 1st. Mr. Gormley said his union wants no overtime. They do, however, want an appropriate rise in the cost of living. Earlier, you heard some other witnesses. First, there was Matthew Guinan who was the president of Local 100 of the TWCIO. Mr. Guinan said he saw no reason to make a case for the 40-hour week because the committee had already made a recommendation in February. The Board of Transportation, he claimed, stalled in the matter of a private engineering study of the 40-hour week and this, of course, was not in accord with the Memorandum of Understanding. He spoke further and said there shouldn't be any stalling. There should be no further stalling and he has confidence that this three-man mediation board will reach an amicable solution. Mr. Guinan charged the Board of Transport with deliberately breaking the Memorandum of Understanding. Had the TWU been allowed to partake in the study of the 40-hour workweek situation, it would have been a reality, he claimed, and they still want it by July 1st. He said that the board will give excuses and they have wasted one year and might waste another, but the TWU has the fullest confidence in the three-man mediation board. He made that point once again. Then Mr. Michael Quill was the second witness. He is the head of the CIO Transport Workers Union. He commended the three-man mediation committee and said that the case of the 40-hour week had already been made and substantiated by the fact-finding board. The question was, how soon, with no pay reduction and taking into account the rising cost of living, will there be action? When will the crisis be over? Well, he answered his own question, that question, because he said it never would. From his experience as an employee of the subway system, the effect is that the subways are overcrowded and there isn't enough space. But on the common ground of an arbitration table, perhaps something can be done about the labor problem, Mr. Quill made plain. The riding public should be safeguarded, especially at night, and taking guards off the trains was stupidity. These are Mr. Quill's words. He said his union is anxious to help and so is he, but the board of transport was hampered by, and once again we quote his words, the hodgepodge report of the engineering firm. The board of transport and the TWU could have done better, but that, of course, was water over the dam, he claimed. Some relief can be forthcoming by July 1st, but he hopes there will be no speed up but an honest to God, those are his words, 40-hour week. TWU workers do not want to work more than 40 hours, Mr. Quill said, and a fair rise was certainly not necessary. The fund should come out of taxation and capital funds. The police, fire, park, and welfare departments have had rises, and he expects the same thing for the members of his union. He claimed that financing of the entire situation is not a TWU problem, but that of the Board of Transportation and New York City itself. He said, in Manhattan, there is a gap existing between private bus drivers and the TWU city workers. They get 12.5 cents an hour more, more than that gotten by similar drivers doing a similar job. He hoped that this would stop. He said it must stop. He wants to be fair and just, and once again, he expressed his confidence in this three-man mediation board. Then speaking at length was John F. O'Donnell, the general counsel of the TWU. He spoke of the year-old agreement between the TWU and the Board of Transport and said that the president of this country, the national CIO, and the TWU itself had commended this agreement, that is, the memorandum of understanding. The TWU has tried to live up to it, maintained Mr. O'Donnell, but the Board of Transport has violated it. No case need be made for the 40-hour week. This is a point made by many of the representatives of the TWU, but the excuses and the avoidance of giving it by the Board of Transport should stop. He cited historical evidence of the nation's acceptance of the 40-hour week. He also said that Commissioner Minetti, before his appointment to the Board of Transportation as a commissioner of Marine and Aviation some two years ago, had recommended the 40-hour week for the ferry employees and it became a fact a year and a half ago. And he said, certainly five cents, the ferry fare, did not pay for it. And despite the lack of schedules being drawn up in time, the 40-hour work week went into effect and if the men worked overtime, they were paid for it. The same should be done for the Board of Transportation. He said a year ago when the fact-finding board that was May 31st, 1950, recommended the 40-hour week, there was only one question. How the transition to the 40-hour week could be put into effect. He said it could have been done a year ago. He cited a report that the planning and rescheduling done with the assistance and the advice of the TW, or so the memorandum put it, was misinterpreted by the Board of Transportation and that the entire problem could be turned over to the industrial engineers. He said that his union, the TWU, wanted to help. But he claimed that the entire device of giving this over to a group of engineers was a stalling device by the Board of Transportation. This is the testimony of John F. O'Donnell, the general counsel of the TWU. Delay in obtaining industrial engineers on the part of the Board of Transportation was cited by Mr. O'Donnell in contradiction of the no delay clause signed by both parties. He detailed correspondence between the TWU and the Board of Transport of August 8th and August 20th when they wrote to him of industrial engineers going to take over the problem and cited once again the further delay on the part of the Board. He said the authorization of going to work on a 40-hour rescheduling and replanning plan was not given to the engineers by the Board of Transportation until October 4th. And now it's June and there's no rescheduling as yet and no 40-hour week. He said this type of dealing causes unrest in the transit situation and is a, quote, vicious violation of the August agreement. He also claimed that the patience of the TWU workers is exhausted and that in November of 1950, Colonel Sidney Bingham went to St. Louis to advise them on their transport problems while a $400,000 engineering survey was going on in the city. And that drew somewhat of a laugh from the audience assembled here at the Board of Estimate Hall. He said that the TWU could make no new demands for higher pay despite the cost of living having gone up because of the memorandum of understanding. And he said that the cost of living having gone up was recognized by other cities and private firms. And Mr. Sullivan of the Board of Transportation, he said, cited the memorandum of understanding at the idea of more pay but not in the problem of the 40-hour week. He said a meeting with the engineers was promised in January, but in March they couldn't get one. He still tried by telegram to effect a meeting between the TWU and the transport work, the TWU and the board or the engineers, but nothing still happened. March 12th, the Board of Transportation refused to discuss the 40-hour week according to a letter from the Board of Transportation received by the TWU and since no useful purpose would be served. These are the words according to Mr. O'Donnell of the Board of Transport until the engineers report on the situation. Then the Board of Transport organized a demonstration. That was April 14th and two days later they said they got action. They said they don't like the idea of demonstrating but it seems to work. But still, no help was gotten. Then according to Mr. O'Donnell, TWU put May 1st as a time limit on the submission of the engineers' report and Commissioner Bingham said that May 23rd would see the engineers' report come out. It did and the report recommended many things but nothing about the 40-hour week. Finally, it was dispensed with at a further meeting of the Board of Transportation and the TWU. Claimed that the TWU has done its part in the transition to 40 hours but got no cooperation and got nowhere and furthermore there was no excuse for delay. This was a point made several times. He said, make the 40-hour week effective July 1st, 1951 and any problems with rescheduling can be straightened out later. The three-man mediation board must tell the Board of Transportation when the 40 hours goes into effect. He brought forth some newspaper editorial support of the 40-hour TWU position, cited the Times, the Tribune, the News, and the Telegram and further said that the cost of transit police should not be maintained by the Board of Transportation. This is Mr. John F. O'Donnell, the General Counsel of the CIO, speaking. At least, it's our summary of his testimony. He said that an 11-cent increase in June of 1950 was received but the cost of living has risen since. Korea and continuance of the Memorandum of Understanding Clause of a no-wage rise is unrealistic. He also spoke about the top salary of a mechanic, $1.70 an hour, and said that there was a much greater salary paid in San Francisco by a city government. He said mechanics should be reduced to 40 hours but paid the 48-hour rate, and certainly, there was no problem of rescheduling these subway mechanics. Also, told about the clerical workers. Mr. O'Donnell said there should be a five, not a five-and-a-half-day week that they'd piled up some 3,000 hours of overtime and in all likelihood they'd never get the time off for the extra money involved. As far as where the money is going to come from, he said he needn't answer as a representative of the TWU, and the fact-finding board backs him. Employees of the Board of Transportation, Mr. O'Donnell said, in summary, have been shouldering the responsibility of work, and they've been doing it a long time, and this should no longer be their burden. And that, in some nation, was the testimony of John F. O'Donnell, the general counsel of the TWU, and the third witness on the agenda today. There's a further meeting at 2 p.m. from this spacious Board of Estimate room at City Hall, and your city station hopes to cover that transit meeting with the three members of the mediation board at that time. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you.