Well, this body was started in 1940, after three months of the so-called phony war. There were people all over the country sitting behind their blackout curtains, with the mental gloom only equalled by the gloom in the blackened country outside, and everybody got fed up with it. And they felt that art and enjoyment, all kinds of cultural enjoyment, must just go on, and they expressed their will about it in no uncertain terms. And the government, the authorities, to their eternal credit, agreed that it should go on. And they set up one of those initial letter bodies that we had in such profusion during the war, under the initials CEMA, but we were always called CEMA. That did not stand for the Church of England Men's Association, but the Council for the Encouragement of Music and the Arts. And we took music and drama and exhibitions up and down the country. It was an entirely an emergency program at that time, concerts when the Blitz was on, exhibitions to areas where people had been evacuated, and so on. And that was all started in 1940. Oh, I see. In other words, this was a chance to sort of, you might say, spread art over a larger area at a time when it was badly needed in Britain. Indeed, exactly. I believe I'd be correct in saying, Mr. James, that the Arts Council of Great Britain is state-sponsored. Is that so? Well, we began, financially that is, on a half-and-half basis. The government provided half at the instigation, at the direct request of the then President of the Board of Education, Lord Delaware, who I need hardly remind you, is a direct descendant of the Lord Delaware who led the second expedition to Jamestown, Virginia. Oh, indeed. And the other half of the money was provided by that great philanthropic institution, the Pilgrim Trust, the funds that were provided, you remember, by Stephen Harkness, your great railway magnate. So we feel we have quite a sentimental link between us and you in the creation of the Arts Council. I would certainly agree. But I would like just to say that when you use that word, sponsored, do let us remember that a state-sponsored organization is not a state-controlled organization. There's a very definite distinction there, isn't there? Most emphatically. We are an entirely an autonomous body. Although we get our money from the government, we build our program in our own way, we carry it out in our own way. Well, when you say that you get your money in your own way or get it from the government, that kind of makes one think, especially in this country here, of a Ministry of Fine Arts, perhaps. Would you call the Art Council, does it come out of that category? No, sir, it does not. You don't like the sound of that. Such an idea is absolutely repugnant to the British people of a Ministry of Fine Arts. You will remember that phrase of Shakespeare's, Art made tongue-tied by authority. That is the one thing that we don't want. Well, suppose then you do tell us the extent of your official status. Well, we have a Royal Charter. That's the official document that sets us up. And under that Royal Charter, we are charged to do three things. To develop a greater knowledge and understanding of the arts and their practice. To increase their accessibility, and that's a very important point. And to improve the standard of execution. Now, in increasing the standard of accessibility, in my particular branch of the work, the visual arts, we have, for instance, taken up till now just over 400 different exhibitions to over a thousand different centres in Britain. Many of them, not only have they, haven't got an art gallery any tall, but have never seen what you can call a live painting. This is a tremendous thing, 400. Yes. Those include, of course, some of the well-known international exhibitions, like the Van Gogh exhibition, and the French tapestries, which you've had over here, and the Munich and Vienna pictures, which the latter you certainly had. But those are only what one might call stars in a less brilliant firmament, because we are taking exhibitions of much lesser importance, but nonetheless of great attraction to, as I said, places where they don't ever see live pictures, ordinarily or didn't, before the war. I was going to ask you also, Mr. James, along with these stars, so to speak, what other, what kind of a policy have you set in the selection of artworks from your local people to present to the people in these exhibitions? Is there an attempt made to, oh, shall we say, secure works by the lesser-known artists who might be of value? Certainly. Our standard, the only standard we have is that they must be good works of art. I mean, we don't confine ourselves only to the famous artists, nor do we confine ourselves to pictures only coming from one school, or one period, or one country. Oh, I see. It's fully comprehensive, in other words. There's one... Except that when you say comprehensive, it does make me think, well, what about America? We're naturally interested in what England thinks of America in the sense of fine arts, or graphic arts more particularly. Have we had place in this art council? Unfortunately not. Oh? America is the one great country with whom we have no official cultural relations at all in the way of exchanges of exhibitions. That sounds like a very deadly statement. Well, it is deadly. We have cultural... we recently signed cultural conventions with the Netherlands, with France, with Belgium. But we do very, very much hope that one day there will be somebody over here, some official institution that can provide these exhibitions, so that when we want to see so badly do, to see what is the best in American art in Britain, there'll be somebody who can send it to us. Where do you suppose we've gone amiss in not taking part? Well, I mean, you've got to have some central body who will collect the pictures and send them and build up the exhibitions. A body rather like your American Federation of Arts, only on an official intergovernmental scale. In the regional sense, America is alert artistically. There are art circles and art groups that produce regionally. Yeah. But in the sense of putting us across on an international scale, that's a different thing, isn't it? Not so badly needed, I think. I imagine that many people wondered why our own State Department did not necessarily follow through in the international art exhibit at Venice, which was just a short time ago. There was a wonderful opportunity to put before the public the kind of thing that is happening in this country, and it wasn't really done. Well, to me, as a foreigner, that seems a great pity, but let's hope something's done. Is it because we're still adolescent in the collective sense, or what would you think about that? No, I think it is that your government ought to realise that the exchange of the arts between countries is one of the finest methods of obtaining an understanding between people that you can possibly have. And of course, Mr James, this does not mean that any said government will decide what is good or bad in art, does it? That is why I said so vehemently just now that I think the Ministry of Fine Arts is the wrong thing. Yes. That is why. Well, now tell me, with what success has the Art Council of Great Britain met in England? What has been the public response? Well, I would say that there is a revival of interest in the arts, such as we haven't seen for many generations in England, a veritable renaissance in the arts. On the part of the general public? On the part of the general public. Yes, that should be very exciting to you people. When I tell you that the number of people who visited the Munich and Vienna exhibitions last year was one percent of the total attendances in all American museums throughout the year, that will give you some indication. I'd like to go somewhere and hide after hearing it. So the public has gotten excited about what the Art Council is doing. I don't want you to think it's only exhibitions that we do, because we give grants of money to local arts centres. We want to encourage these physical centres, bricks and mortar, where people can not only go and enjoy the arts, but can practise the arts too, because it is a revival of the creative instincts of people becoming artists themselves that is so factly important that it mustn't be confined only to enjoying the arts. So that the Art Council is not responsible purely for setting up an exhibit and seeing that it circulates throughout the area designated, but does take an interest in the individual artist where possible. Certainly. Are there, for instance, competitions held between artists or anything of that nature? No, we don't believe very much in competitions. We don't believe they necessarily produce the best results. What we do do is we buy pictures, and next year for the Festival of Britain in 1951, we are placing some very important commissions for a great number of artists. That will be a real jamboree next year, because we do feel that when all the flags are down and the fireworks are over at that great festival, we want some really permanent works of art left behind. And obviously, the right thing to do is to commission living artists. Well, how fortunate that the Council is able to commission works of art and then to be able to pull them from a large area such as the entire English country. I was going to say, too, that along with these services of grants and commissions, what other services would you say the Council can offer the public in general? How about getting art to the point where it is not, shall we say, thrown up on the esoteric shelf and made unavailable to people? That, I feel, to be one of the Council's biggest jobs, and let us put it in this way, that the question of patronage of the artists, the divorce between the creative artist and the public. How do you circumvent that big problem? Well, that is a problem that has hit us completely mid-riffs at the moment. I should imagine there is more private patronage in the United States than anywhere else, but nowadays, of course, we have no really rich men who can afford to buy valuable paintings. And what we have got to do is to find new patrons, or else art will die. And I feel that the new patrons are our bodies, like beginning with the state, then all the municipalities, who of course buy a few pictures for their art galleries each year, but usually stop at that. But not only them, all the public utilities and corporations, all the nationalised industries must all become art patrons. A doctor said to me the other day, can I have some paintings in the patient's department at my hospital? Well, I maintain that the National Health Service should set to and buy those. The British Railways, nationalised British transport. They have hotels with immense great lounges and dining rooms and bedrooms. Why shouldn't they buy paintings from living artists? Well, of course, it's an entirely logical thing that they should. However, I suppose the problem is just as bad in England as it is here. Although we've had during this art festival here at WNYC a series of programmes cornering this kind of problem. In fact, we've had the mural painter and the architect on the same panel and got them to fight it out. Yes. You see, why does a new structure worth several billions of dollars go up and there not be a single painting integrated into the design? What's the obstacle along the way? And why can't we and you have that law that used to exist in Sweden and certainly existed in Belgium and in Italy and in the town of Zurich before the war? Well, when a percentage of the total cost of a building was set aside, it was 1% or something small like that, but that 1% of the total cost was set aside and had to be spent on the decoration of that building by works, by artists, be they paintings or murals or mosaics or sculpture or whatever you like. I realise that, Mr James. That explains the complete excellence of some of the buildings in these countries you've mentioned and the general quality, high quality of all of the design. I think there is a constructive and intelligent way in which the state and big, and not only the government but the local municipalities and smaller bodies of that sort, whenever they put up a public building, they ought to spend a percentage of the cost of it on decorating it. This is a wonderful idea. I hope some of our designers and decorators and blueprint makers are listening. I gather then from what you say that to a large extent you think that greater art patronage must develop at the level of the designer, perhaps even the industrialist, but what about just Mr. and Mrs. England or Mr. and Mrs. America? How can they get in the picture? There still seems to be a strange breach. Well, I think that the fact, as I told you just now, that we are showing people all these exhibitions in places where there isn't an art gallery even. We put on exhibitions in an electricity showroom, a town hall, it doesn't matter where it is. Provided it is reasonably secure from the weather and the pictures can be made to look something there, we'll put on an exhibition there. Well, now, if people get the opportunity of looking at good pictures, we hope very much the desire to acquire good pictures and possess good pictures will take hold of them one day. And I do believe... It's a sort of a chain reaction, in other words, of being exposed to something fine. They will want a reproduction of the painting they've seen, perhaps, and that will in turn lead to... And not only a reproduction, because today in Britain you can buy a good, honest little painting... An original painting. An original painting for as little or less than many reproductions. Well, that's a wonderful selling point. Well, Mr. James, I wish there was a lot more time to talk about the subject on tap this afternoon, but I'm afraid there isn't. Could you take just a moment to tell us what you're going to do while you're here in America? I'm giving some lectures at the Metropolitan Museum. That's the reason I've come over. Oh, then you'll be a daily visitor to the Metropolitan? Yes, sir. And I want, above all, this being my first visit to the States, to seize this opportunity of seeing so many of your wonderful collections, which I know well enough from books of reproductions, but have never seen in the flesh. Well, you'll be very busy, and I hope you have a most enjoyable time of it. Thank you. Well, this is a very pleasant beginning to my trip. Thank you so much, Mr. James. You've been listening to Mr. Philip James, Director of the Art Council of Great Britain, in a talk on the state and subsidized art. This has been another feature presentation of your City Station's American Art Festival. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
