Hi, neighbor. This is Eddie Albert, your narrator for another story about the folks who live down the block. Or maybe the people who live next door. Anyway, it's called The Bobby Soxer's Rebellion. And it begins in the dining room of the Russell family. Patty, breakfast is ready, dear. Be right down, Ma. Well, if you don't hurry, your father will eat all the French toast. Well, Art, that girl cares for French toast. She's been eating like a bird lately. What do you suppose keeps her alive, anyway? Banana splits, I should say. Another thing, Bea, I don't want to sound like a tyrant, but do you suppose we could stop Patty from running around with Herbie, Whittemer, Well, what's wrong with Herbie? Those ideas of his, dear. The kids are radical. All adolescents are radicals in one way or another. May I have the butter, dear? Well, I don't like it. You know, I think you and I ought to have a serious talk about that girl. What about tonight? Can't tonight. PT meeting. Oh, well, let's skip it. Nobody ever comes anyway. Fine talk from the chairman. Well, it's the truth. You know that you and I go only out of a sense of duty. But it shouldn't be that way. Oh, I wish I could think of some way of putting some life into that parent-teacher's group. That moribund relic. Patty. They're all dead from the neck up, just like everything else connected with that school, honestly. Morning, Dad. Something wrong at school, Patty? I mean, more than usual. Only that we have a fascist for a principal, that's all. Fascist? David Owen? Just listen to his latest, Dad. He told the teachers to give an exam in every subject sometime during the rest of the tomb. And anyone absent gets a zero for the exam, and that zero is averaged in with the rest of our marks. You mean if you were absent, you wouldn't get a chance to make up the exam? That does seem kind of strict. Kind of strict? It's a blitz. I still can't see why you should be so concerned. You don't miss any classes. Or do you? Oh, of course I don't cut classes. But it's the principle of the thing. It's a threat to personal liberty. But boy, we're not going to take it lying down. No siree. Well, what are you going to do? Oh, you'll find out. Time. I'd rather find out about it now. Yes, Patty. Come across. Oh, gee, Dad. I promised. It's the sort of pact I made with the gang. Uh-huh. You know, Patty, your mother and I trust you. But I wish you'd take this into your confidence. Now, don't try to worm it out on me, Dad, please. All right, dear. Oh, say, Ma, any chance of seconds on the French toast? Hello? Mrs. Russell, this is David Owens, the high school principal. Oh, yes, Mr. Owens. Mrs. Russell, did you know that the students of my school were calling a strike for this morning? What? A strike? Well, how should I know? Because, Mrs. Russell, your daughter, Patricia, is one of the ringleaders of the strike. Oh, no. Please come right down to the school and try to talk some sense into your daughter. Goodbye. When B. Russell arrived at the high school that morning, she found the Bobby Soxer's revolt well in progress. There were two picket lines, one of boys carrying placards, led by Herbie Whitmer, and one of girls, led by guess who. But this was no ordinary picket line. It was moving to the rhythm of a conga, B. Russell. B. pushed her way through to Patty and asked to have a little talk with her. Patty was a little too exhilarated to lead the line willingly, but she finally led her mother to the strike headquarters, otherwise known as Pop's Sweet Shop. I'll have a double banana split, please. What'll you have, Ma? Just coffee. Strong coffee. Gosh, you certainly work up an appetite picketing. Patty, this strike is a serious matter. You're telling me? Old Owens is simply beside himself with fury. You should have heard the speech he made to us this morning, treating us like children, threatening us with expulsion. Expulsion? Well, Patty, what will your father say? Oh, don't worry, Ma. It's just a threat. Anyway, we're going back to our classes this afternoon. Oh, you're going back? Well, that's good news. Oh, but we're striking again tomorrow morning. Oh, Patty, I'm beginning to lose patience with you. You can't fly in the face of school authorities like this. If you wanted to protest against the attendance ruling, you should have approached the principal through the student council. We did. Owens ignored the council. I tell you, Ma, that man is dangerous. He probably thinks the same of you. Patty, this strike isn't connected with anything at home, is it, dear? Oh, no, Ma. I just felt that I had to, that's all. Oh, gosh, don't you understand? I'm trying to, dear. Well, anyway, Ma, don't worry about it. I know what I've gotten into and I'll get out of it all right. You'll see. Gee, I guess this revolt of mine kind of embarrasses you and Dad, doesn't it? I'm afraid it does, Patty. But that's foolish, Ma. I am an individual. Oh, gosh, don't people respect the rights of individuals anymore? The world is just going to pieces. Oh, look, they call this a banana split? Well, the first day of the Teenagers' Rebellion sure enough ended in a deadlock. But you've got to give credit to Patty and Herbie for one thing. Their strike gave a badly needed shot in the arm to the Parent-Teachers' Association. The meeting that night was packed. David Owens, the high school principal, presented his side of the affair. All 50 of the striking students returned to their classes this afternoon. But a message from their leaders informs me that they intend to strike again tomorrow if the exam ruling is not changed. Speaking for the school, I should like to say that the regulation will not be changed. students who do not report to their classes tomorrow will be expelled. May I have your attention, please? This meeting is now open for discussion from the floor. Anyone? Mr. Chairman. B? Mr. Owens. Friends. As all of you know, our daughter Patty is involved in this strike. speaking for myself and my husband, I can only say that we've tried to give Patty as much freedom as possible. Too much freedom if you ask me. Well, boys and girls need freedom at this age. Oh, I'm sure all of you with teenage children must have noticed the different ways they show this need. They want to pick out their own clothes. They're more critical of us. You can say that again. They want to be treated like adults. And, well, I think they should have a certain amount of independence. And I'll bet most of you agree with me. This strike is simply another way our children have taken to show their need for freedom. It's just part of their growing up. That may be, Mrs. Russell. But how do you propose to cope with it? Well, by understanding the reason for the revolt. Please, be specific, Mrs. Russell. Will my understanding the reasons for this strike make your daughter go to school tomorrow? Well, of course I can't speak for Patty. That's it, Bea. You've hit the nail right on the head. Now, I suppose it isn't according to Hoyle for the chairman to butt in like this, but I think my wife said a mouthful. She and I can't speak for Patty any more than any of you folks can speak for your kids. They did this thing on their own. Now, let's let them speak for themselves. That's right. Let's treat them like adults. I think so. And, uh, what do you suggest, Mr. Russell? Well, ask them to send a delegation to meet with you and the committee of parents and teachers. Give them a chance to talk things over instead of handing them an ultimatum. I bet you it'll work. That doesn't sound very practical. Why don't we try it, sir? After all, students, parents, and teachers have never set out into a roundtable discussion like this before. Personally, I don't think it will work. But, uh, how do the rest of you feel about this? Is there, uh, is anyone opposed? Well, Mr. Owens? All right. Go ahead. Select your committee. Patty and her cohorts met with the committee at 10 o'clock the next morning. Jean and Bea Russell thought it might be better for them to bow out of the committee meeting. So we find them now sitting it out at home. I'm worried, Bea. Patty promised she'd phone as soon as the meeting was over. Yeah. Oh, there. Hello? Hello? Oh, no. She isn't here yet. Who's calling, please? Oh, the paper. Well, all right. Keep trying. Reporter again? Christ B, you know, I... Please, Jean. Patty will handle herself all right. Oh, she puts up a good enough front. Underneath, dear, she's just a scared little girl. That's part of being an adolescent, dear. She's betwixt and between, you know. Yeah. Seems like only yesterday that she was a child. It won't be very long before she's a young woman. I think that's what really bothers both of us. What do you mean, Bea? Our child's growing up. Soon she'll be getting married and leaving us. Oh, sure, we want her to be happy. So we encourage her now to be independent. But we're going to miss that little girl. Bea, have we done the right thing in encouraging Patty to be independent? This is the test, dear. She and her friends say they have a right to a voice in school affairs. So far, they've produced a lot of destructive criticism. Now, for the first time, they have a chance to sit down with teachers and parents and do some constructive thinking. Something worthwhile comes out of this. Our policy of letting her think for herself will be paying dividends at last. Well, I hope you're right. Hi, Ma. Hi, Dad. Patty, why didn't you phone? Oh, I tried to, but kept getting a busy signal. Anyway, the most divine boy in the senior class gave me a lift in his car, and guess what? He wants me to go roller skating with him this afternoon after school. That's all very well, Patty, dear, but what about the strike? Oh, that. It's all over. Over? Oh, thank heaven. Yes, we're going back to classes after lunch. Oh, say, Ma, does my skating outfit need a pressing? Patty, please, sit down and tell your father and me about the meeting. Oh, well, there was a lot of yadda-dy-yadda. Oh, Mr. Owens explained that the reason for the attendance ruling was that our school had a high truancy rate. So? So, we talked about it for a while, and then, you know, somebody in the parent-teacher's committee said that maybe there ought to be more recreational facilities and social get-togethers at school, you know, working on the theory that anything you did to pep up school spirit would cut down on the truancy. Just what the PT group needs, a project they can sink their teeth into. We're going to meet again with them to see what we can do about it. Well, what about the attendance regulation? Oh, well, it's still in effect for a trial period of one month. But, you know, I was kind of surprised at Owens. He seemed almost human at times. Gosh, maybe if we keep up these meetings, we can work out something, something more democratic. Still can't believe everything's settled. Oh, Patty, that's a reporter. The newspaper wants a statement from you. Oh, but the divine boy is waiting to take me back to school. Tell him I'll write him a letter. You're obviously no headline, Hunter. Hello? Dad. Yes, dear? You and Ma have been peachy about all this. I promise not to cause you any more trouble. All right. Well, dear, there are bound to be some rough spots now that you switched from pickets to playboys. But you run along now and later on you bring the divine boy in to meet your folks. I will. Bye, Dad. But I tell you she's gone back to school. Oh, you want a personal interview? Well, she's kind of an active girl, but you might look for her at the playground after 3.30. Oh, uh, and don't forget your roller skates. Well, that was the Bobby Soxer's Rebellion, a production of the National Mental Health Foundation. And this is Eddie Albert saying, so long, neighbor. Oh, uh, don't go away. Your announcer has an important message for you. The National Mental Health Hi, neighbor. This is Eddie Albert. You mind if I make myself at home? Uh, I got a little story for you. A story about people you might know. You see, boys and girls like Sally Thatcher and Doug Fleming can be found in everybody's hometown. Some mornings, you see them on their way to school and you say to yourself, was I like that? Here's Sally Thatcher now, just turned 17, and in her last year at high school, and a very pretty girl. What do you suppose is on her mind? Hope Doug's not late. Why should he be? Why should he be? We've been going steady for almost a year now and he hasn't been late once. Might change when we're married, though. No, he won't. Oh, Doug will be a model husband. He'll be everything I expect in a man. If I feel like sleeping late in the mornings, he'll get breakfast himself. And if I get home late from the bridge club some afternoon and dinner isn't ready, well, he'll take me out to some nice restaurant. If I want a career, he won't stand in the way. Gee, I wish he'd hurry up and ask me to marry him. Well, that's Sally. Now, here's Doug Fleming. He's a nice-looking, well-set-up lad of 17. And Doug has his daydreams, too. I sure hope Sally remembers we're supposed to be there at 9. Her and her last-minute primping. Well, I'll knock that out of her. Yep. Sally is gonna make me a wonderful wife. Just the girl to bring up those six kids we're gonna have. And she's sensible as well as pretty. She'll soon understand that a woman's place is in the home. That doesn't sound like the beginning of a happy marriage, does it? Well, let's see what happened. Oh, uh, by the way, our story is called The School for Marriage. Seems kind of strange, doesn't it, Sally, to be here this morning instead of being at school? Uh-huh. You know, Doug, I've never been in a courtroom. Oh, neither have I. Seems like a funny place to hold a class. But then it's a funny class all around. Of course, in marriage and family living? It's my favorite. I mean, it's so practical. Yeah. Of course, after all, almost everybody gets married. And I like Mrs. Babson's ideas about getting us outside the classroom to see things. Like this visit to the juvenile court here this morning. Yeah, she's all right. Did you do the required reading? Do I ever? Well, you should have. It was very interesting. All about mate selection. Would you say that again? Mate selection. You know, picking the right husband. Picking a husband? Hmm. Well, I always thought girls waited until they were asked. They have to because that's the way you men have arranged things. Now, if women were able to propose to men... They are. Every leap year. Doug, I'm serious. Now, if women were able to arrange things their way, the world would be a lot better off. Is that what the textbook says? Well, no, but I have my own ideas. All right. What's your point, baby? Well, take, for instance, the way you assume I'm going to the senior hop with you. You mean you want an engraved invitation? No, but as long as this is a man's world and I have to wait until I'm asked. You might at least have asked me instead of taking me for granted. After all, I might have been asked by somebody else. Well, Sally, do you want to go with anybody else? Well, no, but that's not the point. What's gotten into you this morning? Has your mother been after you again telling you that you're too young to go steady with me? Leave my mother out of this. Well, I certainly hope she doesn't try to interfere with us after we're married. There you go again, assuming I'm going to marry you when you haven't even asked me to. Doug Fleming, this is the utter end. Save it for later, baby. There's the gang. Babson's waving to us. Just a minute, Doug. There's something I want to straighten out right now. I suppose when we are married, you'll be the one to give orders in the family? Well, naturally. You think I'm going to be henpecked like your old man? Hi, Jack. Hiya, Doug. Then maybe you'd better ask somebody else to the senior hop. Oh, now what have I said? Sally, why do you... Hello, Othelia. Hi, Sally. Gee, I thought you two would never get... Hey, what's up? Othelia, I'm never going to speak to Doug Fleming again, that's all. Uh-huh, another lover's quarrel, eh? Why can't he be like my father? Dad wouldn't think of treating Ma the way Doug treats me. Oh, good morning, Mrs. Babson. Good morning, Sally. Well, now that we're all here, let's go into the courtroom. Hi, Jack. Hey, Doug, I thought nobody could tell you anything about women. What made you sign up for this course in marriage relations? Somebody told me it was a snap. How about you? Oh, somebody told me it was sexy. We won't follow the class into the courtroom. What's really important for us is what happened later when the judge received the class in his chambers. Mrs. Babson told me a few weeks ago that she wanted her class to witness a case showing the effect of a family conflict on children. I told her to have you sit in on the case because I think it's a very clear-cut one. But, Your Honor, you didn't hand down a decision on it. No, I didn't, young lady. I meant that the problem was clear-cut. What's to be done about it is something else again. but, um, let's talk about it. Maybe you can help me to decide. Now then, Jimmy is a runaway. On three separate occasions he has run away from home. Why? Hmm? Anyone got any ideas? Well, um, from his testimony I'd say he certainly wasn't happy there. Mm-hmm. But it's a very nice home physically. Jimmy has two little sisters. He seems very fond of them. His folks give him everything he wants. Almost everything, that is. Why then does he run away? And why does he pick Sunday morning? Did you notice that it's always when his father was about to set out for church with the children? Well? Yes? Well, since it was a mixed marriage, I mean with a mother and father belonging to different churches, well, it looks as if that had something to do with it. That's right. You see, the father insists that Jimmy and his sisters be brought up in his faith. The mother, on the other hand, goes to a different church. And, as you heard, she argues constantly with her husband because she can't bring up her children according to her faith. So the kid Jimmy got confused, huh? Right. The struggle for domination between both parents resulted in Jimmy's conflict. The only way out for him was running away from both. A pretty poor solution. But after all, Jimmy is only a little boy. Well, obviously. The father should have given in and let the mother bring up the children in her faith. What? Oh, that's silly. Well, that may be obvious to you, young lady, but the father would feel differently. Why, sure, Sally. If he gave in to her, then he'd feel resentful and he'd argue all the time and, gee, Jimmy would still be confused. So, what's the solution? No mixed marriages? Oh, no, son. You might as well say no marriages at all. All marriages are mixed in one way or another. There are differences in age, education, cultural, social backgrounds, as well as differences in religion. Well, maybe they should have shared the children. You know, let Jimmy go to his mother's church and let his sisters go to the father's church. That splits the family in half. It might make the conflict even worse. Judge Matthews, I think the class would like to know why you postponed the case until tomorrow. Well, Mrs. Babson, I want to bring the parents together, get them to talk it over, which is what they should have done before they were married. You see, the matter of religion isn't the real difficulty here. It's just an excuse, a sort of peg on which these people hang all their other troubles. There are lots of other reasons why husbands and wives don't get along, you know, but these conflicts can be brought to the surface and faced. They must be if two people are going to create the kind of home atmosphere that makes for healthy, happy children. And that's an atmosphere of companionship tolerance and mutual respect. But, Your Honor, isn't it too late? I think not. Perhaps they can still work something out. You know, the important thing about marriage is that you have to keep working at it. It's a partnership in which neither partner should dominate. And if you youngsters go into married life with the idea of companionship in mind, well, there may be fewer problem children in this town. Okay. A's for everybody in the class. Thank you so much, Judge. Come along, class. Oh, I thought it was very exciting. He's a nice guy, that judge, huh, Jack? I'm surprised you think so, Doug. He shot your theory full of holes. Yeah. Yeah, it kind of makes you stop and think. Mrs. Babson, you know my folks. Would you say my father was henpecked? Why, Sally, after all, I don't know your family that well. Well, before he went to Judge Matthews' chambers, Doug Fleming said he wasn't going to be henpecked like my dad. And I was kind of surprised when the other kids in the class didn't agree with me when I said Jimmy's mother should have had her own way. Some of your ideas about marriage are different from your classmates' ideas, but that's one of the reasons for having this course. We want you young people to share your ideas, talk about them, find out where you got them. Gosh, this marriage business seems so complicated. It's not as easy as some people seem to think it is, but it's well worth all the effort it takes. Uh-huh. Sure makes you stop and think. You know, Sally, Doug Fleming is walking just behind us. I think he wants to walk with you, so I'll go on ahead. Goodbye, Sally. Mrs. Benson, talk. Bye, Sal. Interesting case, wasn't it? Um, here, here's something for you. I don't wish to. Well, what's this? It's an engraved invitation. Reading, Mr. Douglas Fleming respectfully requests the pleasure of Miss Sally Thatcher's company at the senior hop. It says no such thing. Why, it's just an announcement of the opening of a new beauty parlor. What's the diff? It's engraved. You idiot. What kind of a wedding should we have, Sal? Oh, are you really going to ask my opinion? Remember what the judge said? It's a partnership. Well, I'd like a big church wedding with... I'd like a small, simple... Well, what are we going to do now? Talk it over. That was the School for Marriage, produced by the National Mental Health Foundation. And this is Eddie Albert saying, so long, neighbor. Don't go away. Your announcer has an important message for you. her brother, and the local will be more than an outro. He'll be frozen. And what's going to love, is there a reason we can't take it. So long, The End The End
