Commissioner Mulrane, I'm glad to have you here to discuss with you the Department of Sanitation's part in the city's civil offense program. I'm grateful for your visit. I know it is to take time out from directing such a big job as that of cleaning up the largest and best city in the world. And this is a busy time for you, isn't it? Well, yes, Commissioner, we are approaching our busiest season. I men always have enough to do keeping house after eight million New Yorkers. Now we're nearing snow time. But I assure you we'll clean up and we'll remove whatever snow falls, in addition to doing our bit on our civilian defense program. You feel, Commissioner Mulrane, that your department can make a substantial contribution to our defense efforts? Why, yes, sir, we can. But that's one job I perfectly hope the sanitation man will never be called upon to do. Yes, we all feel the same way. Would you mind telling our listeners, Commissioner, what would be the Department of Sanitation's duties in the event of atomic attack? Well, in such an eventuality, Mr. Wallander, our functions would be diverse, as would be those of any similarly large mobile organization. In general, our work would be closely allied to that of the Department of Health and the Department of Public Works. In working with the Department of Health, I assume your function would be largely in the decontamination efforts, wouldn't it? Well, yes. Probably our 2,500-gallon flushing machines would be very useful in spraying detergents, which would help counteract the effects of radioactive substances or harmful chemicals. Individual sanitation men might also use hoses or spraying equipment, too. Perhaps equipment similar to what we've used periodically in mosquito control work. Yeah, well, that's interesting. And how about your working with the Department of Public Works? What do you do for them? Well, Air Commissioner, sanitation personnel would join in the wake of demolition, the clearing of debris and the rescuing people from collapsed buildings. In times of stress, there's scarcely any limit to the uses in which a strong, well-trained sanitation man can be put. Well, I'm sure that's so. Your boys are a rugged lot, Commissioner. I know that. Yes, I think so, Commissioner Wallander. You have to be in pretty good shape to stand the gaffe in our department. A sanitation man must lift heavy cans or push a broom or a pan scraper eight hours a day. And I'm meant to do it in all kinds of weather. Strong men are helpful in any catastrophe, such as your civil defense program seeks to avoid or at least mitigate. Great. Well, fine. And about how many men could you throw into a battle to help save our city, Commissioner Moraine? Well, over 12,000. That includes all the men in the uniformed force and their supervisors. And what would you have in the equipment line then? Well, roughly it runs around 3,400 pieces. That would include everything from collection trucks, sweeper machines and snow plows to bulldozers, cranes, barges and tugboats. Gee, that's a large order. But you do have tugboats, too. Does the Department of Sanitation have many tugboats? Well, should I put it this way? We have a sanitation Navy, Commissioner. We have three tugs and 42 large steel-weld barges. Oh, yes. I do recall now your Navy is used to transport refuse down the bay, and I believe you transport these land reclamation projects on Staten Island. Is that so? Well, that's so. We're doing land reclamation work for Commissioner Moses and the Park Department. The Sanitation Marine Division can be very useful in an emergency. Other city departments utilize our tugs and barges occasionally. In the event of difficulty along the waterfront, there are many uses to which the sanitation sailors could be put. Our Marine equipment would be tremendously effective in moving all kinds of critical supplies during a disaster. That fleet of trucks, Commissioner Moraine, tell us, what is the breakdown on that? How many do you have and what's the general... Well, we have close to 2,000. That counts the... Counting the refuse collection vehicles, the flushes, and the service trucks. Those are the three-quarter ton small service trucks. Oh, yes. They are mighty useful to the city every day, and they could be even handier in extreme emergencies such as we guard against. You know, Andy, perhaps our audience would like your comment as to how you'd utilize your trucks in the event an enemy was to hit our town, Commissioner. What would be the... How would you apply your trucks? Well, the enclosed vehicles could be used to haul food and medical and other supplies. They could also be useful as ambulances and evacuation buses. And, of course, for carrying away any rubble. Some of the flushing machines might be divided from their decontamination mission to haul water or milk for the children. You know, they're tight, those flushing bodies. Yes. Or any other kind of critical liquid supplies. Well, that's interesting, particularly on the food front. You know, I never knew that your trucks were that tight that could haul milk. Last summer, rather, during an emergency up at the summer police camp, we used our flushing machines to haul water. Is that right? Well, I'm sure the public would be interested to know about that. However, while we're on the subject of sanitation equipment, don't you think we should include those snow plows of yours, which were so effective back in the 47-48 blizzard? Oh, yes, I do, Mr. Wallinger. Our plans show what's available in the way a road-clearing machinery includes some of 600 of these tractor plows. Those are the small crosswalk plows that you see in the streets. Yes. You can imagine how useful these powerful little machines would be in the event a bomb cascaded some of our downtown buildings into the street. See, there would sure be a lot of rubble. You do have plows and snow-loading equipment scattered all over the city, don't you, Commissioner Moraine? Oh, yes. At a moment's notice, just as in the case of a snow emergency, plows and some heavy bulldozers could be dispatched to assist in keeping open our main traffic arteries. The excess roads to the city markets, the bridges, tunnels, and any other heavily trafficked thoroughfare. Well, I know how useful you were during that blizzard that I referred to, and you were a godsend to us. And I frankly didn't know that you had all the equipment that was pushed out at that time that helped to keep our streets open. That was quite a chore. I bet it was. I think we've covered all the equipment that sanitation can throw into civil defense, haven't we, Commissioner? Well, just about. That's all the heavy stuff at least, but you can add several thousand picks, shovels, hose reels, brooms, or other small equipment that we have. Yes, I'm sure that's so. You have plans, of course, for getting all of your resources into immediate action, don't you? Oh, yeah, we have. We have prepared charts which blueprint our system for lighting and activating every man and every piece of equipment in the department. Briefly, Commissioner Mulrane, how would you go about moving the sanitation department up to the front lines should we get an atomic attack? There's a lot of rubble around and things are all strewn around. How would you accomplish that? Well, first we would have laid our men. If word came that an atomic attack was imminent, the signal would be received at our 125 Wade Street headquarters. From this nerve center to the department, the light would be flashed by way of telephone and our teletype and radio. And thus advised our men immediately would report to their respective districts and sections as they now do in case of a snowy lake. They would go into action wherever and whenever directed to so by the mayor, yourself, or whoever would direct post-bomb operations. I see. In the event of an aerial or harbor-born bomb was to knock out your Wade Street headquarters and its communications system, I know it certainly would be a situation that would be one to cause you a lot of concern. Would it disrupt your operations very much? Well, only to a small extent. Various alternate command posts have been designated. We do that in case of snow also. And in view of our hookup with the police and other city departments, borough and district commands would be able to function autonomously until citywide communications had been reestablished. Well, that's very reassuring in the event that your communications should be knocked out. I see. What occurs to me now is, suppose if half of Manhattan were knocked out, your job would be directed from the surviving portions. Is that right? Well, that's just about how it would work. Assume if district A were bombed, district B or the nearest command office would direct the emergency operations. Well, I'm glad to hear that. Now, how about the apportionment of equipment, Commissioner Moraine? Well, along with our tables of organization, we have created a chart which shows, or I should say a series of charts, which shows the location of every piece of equipment the department controls. The location of the garages and storage quarters are closely integrated with police department precincts. Does anyone wishing to dispatch trucks, plows, or similarly mobile equipment, as well as the personnel to man it, could promptly do so through the police network or through our own communication systems? Yes, well, that's fine. Commissioner Moraine, you have given us a very clear picture of the help we can expect from the sanitation department in the event of an atomic attack. I'd like to thank you again for your coming to chat with us. I'm sure our listeners will agree that it is unfortunate that time doesn't permit us to go deeper into your contribution in marshalling forces which safeguard the people of our city. Well, thank you, Commissioner. And whether it's debris resulting from atomic bombing or just plain refuse, the Department of Sanitation will be on the job. Well, that's fine. I'm sure glad to hear that. Thank you.