How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? Some weeks ago, we were privileged to present over the WNYC microphones Dr. Morris Jacobs, Deputy Commissioner of the New York City Department of Hospitals, who announced the city's new plan of homestead havens for the aged, which will remove many thousands of older people from hospitals where they do not actually belong. The city project of rest havens for these senior citizens unable to care for themselves is due to get underway early in 1957. With the increasing population of the over 60 age group in New York, we thought this subject needed more attention, and we have invited Dr. James M. Rosen, President of the New York City Nursing Home Association, before our microphones to tell us how private nursing homes are meeting the problems of the aged. And what plans are being made for future needs? Dr. Rosen is particularly well equipped to tell us how the city agencies and private homes can work cooperatively in meeting this growing problem, as before assuming his present post, he was assistant to the Commissioner of the Department of Hospitals. Good evening, Dr. Rosen. Perhaps you can tell us how many nursing homes there are in New York City. Good evening, Mr. Segal. There are, at the moment, approximately 110 nursing homes in the city of New York. How many patients are housed in them? There are about 6,000 patients in this group of nursing homes. And of these 6,000 patients, how many are in the over 60 age group, or the senior citizen group? I believe we can safely say that there are about 100% of those that are over the 60-year age limit. Do you think there are a sufficient number of nursing homes in New York City to adequately take care of all of the needs? I believe that with the increase in the nursing home beds, which is now being planned, there are about 2,000 additional beds under construction and about to be licensed, which would make about 8,000 beds for the city. And unless we're looking ahead to 1999, I suppose that ought to be enough for a while. In other words, you think that the foreseeable needs of the city for nursing home beds between now and 1999 are adequately taken care of? I chose 1999 a little facetiously, but what I wanted to say was that I believe at the moment we have sufficient beds without having the city of New York go into additional capital investments, additional expenses of all types, to provide for this group of people. Well, now, do you think that the city can do more in the nursing home field than is now being done, particularly in the care of older people? And apparently this problem really is concerned almost entirely with older people, isn't it? Yes, it is. Do you think that the city can do more in this particular field? I believe the city can do a great deal more, and I think it's up to the city to see that they do a great deal more. For example, when the city talks about the senior citizen, so many of them think of the senior citizen who's well able to look after himself, and they talk of housing and the type of housing it requires. They talk of the possibility of jobs. They talk of all sorts of things which are proper. And they provide him, for example, with centers where he may go for his entertainment and for his socializing. Are these the day centers that the Department of Health and Welfare has established? Yes, sir. But the city has done nothing for the some 4,000 patients, indigents, in nursing homes, institutionalized, in the same area. They have done nothing to provide them with entertainment. They have done nothing to provide them with a rehabilitation program after, in a sense. Dr. Rosen, you weren't, you didn't mean the 4,000 of these people are in nursing homes, is that what you mean? Exactly what I mean. There are about 4,000 indigent senior citizens now in proprietary nursing homes placed there through the Department of Welfare. Well, are these 4,000 out of the 6,000 that you mentioned a moment ago? Exactly. There are now 4,000 patients referred by the Department of Welfare, who originally, most of whom originally were in hospitals, being cared for now in the proprietary nursing homes. Well cared for. And there's plenty of room for others. I see no reason at all, as I said before, why the city should now, at this moment, think in terms such as are being described in the newspapers and on the radio, of large numbers of beds in so-called homesteads, which to my mind are nothing more than the old farm colony in New Dress. I think if that's done, that what we're actually doing is reverting to an old concept which has long gone out the door, a concept which is dangerous in its implications. These people that are presently housed in the proprietary nursing homes have been given a sense of dignity and self-respect. They have chosen their nursing home. There was no compulsory placement, which would be the case if we opened homesteads. Patients would be compelled to go from hospital into a particular homestead, willy-nilly, whether they liked the place, wanted it or not. These people, too, have been brought up to a level now where they expect their check for relief for nursing home stay, and they get it monthly in the mail. They receive the check. They sign it. They pay for their care in these proprietary nursing homes. I think that's a very important factor in this entire problem and must not be overlooked when we talk of reverting back to the city-owned or city-run type of Hons house. Well, now, Dr. Rosen, there are some figures here that are somewhat difficult for me to understand. Did I understand you to mention, either before the broadcast or during it, that at the moment there are about 700 empty beds in the nursing homes? Mr. Siegel, you understood me correctly. There are about 700 vacant beds now in the some 6,000 nursing home beds available to the city of New York. All right. Now, you will recall that when Dr. Jacobs appeared before these microphones, he mentioned something about the fact that there were about 4,000 people who were in city hospitals who didn't necessarily require hospital care, and whom he proposed, or the city was proposing, to move into these homestead havens. Is that correct? That's correct. Well, then, if you can only handle 700, what would happen to the other 3,300 at this particular time? There are, as the Department of Hospitals as well knows, presently under construction, an additional 2,000 to 3,000 beds, proprietary nursing home beds, without capital outlay costs to the city, with no involvement for the city of any kind. In these beds, in these nursing homes, I should say at this moment, these people are housed at $150 a month, $180 a month, and $200 a month. So that the maximum rate paid is about $6 and some change a day per patient. For that $6 and some change per patient, the people are fed. They are given complete, licensed nursing care. They are given the same entertainment and recreational facilities that Dr. Rusk is talking about. They are given occupational therapy at no additional cost to the city. Well, now, does the city, insofar as the Department of Welfare is concerned, does the department provide $6 and some odd cents a day to the patient in order to defray these costs in the case of these 4,000 that you were talking about? No, and I'm glad you brought that up. The 4,000 that are in the hospitals now are not being reimbursed. That is, the city is not being reimbursed for their care at all. No, but we're talking about the 4,000 who are in the nursing homes. In the nursing homes, you're right. And whom you say are supported by the Department of Welfare who send them their individual checks, and they in turn pay their own way, so to speak, in the nursing homes. That's right. Now, does the city provide the equivalent of $6 and some odd cents a day to them? The city has nothing to do with that reimbursement. That reimbursement is made by the Department of Welfare. The city shares 50% of that cost. Well, who provides the other 50%? The state and federal governments. Offhand, I mean, from your experience as assistant to the commissioner of the Department of Hospitals, what is the cost to keep the 4,000 people who are in the hospitals now and whom Dr. Jacobs has suggested be moved to these homestead havens? What is the cost per day for hospital care as opposed to nursing home care and as opposed to the possible cost in these homestead havens? Would you be able to hazard a guess on these? I think I'd like to say something about that. The hospital stay cost per day is around $23. There's no question at all these people do not belong in the hospital. They are not hospital type. They are of no interest to the staff. They are a costly body of patients. I've forgotten your question now. Well, I was concerned with the cost. Oh, yes. Well, you can see how the $23 compares to the $6 plus that is being paid to the nursing homes. Now, if the city were to establish homesteads on previous experience, the cost would be much greater than the $6 plus for these reasons. The city of New York has a direct cost for the care of patients. This direct cost would probably be around $8, $9 a day. Then there are many indirect costs that must be considered. The indirect costs are costs for health department involvement, building department involvement, maintenance department, and from my experience in the department, I know that in figuring the cost of patient care, very few of these outside items are included in cost. So that you find it will be much costlier to put them in these new compounds, as Dr. Jacobs put it, than it would be to put them in proprietary nursing homes. All right, now we just have a moment or so, Dr. Rosen. What new techniques are being employed in nursing homes for the aged to enable our senior citizens to lead more constructive lives, rather than the old type of mere existence under the custodial care which were undertaken by the old age home of two decades ago? The very things that Dr. Rusk so very properly in his report points out are necessary. The recreational program is there. The occupational therapy program is there. In many places, the physiotherapy program is being carried out. The point I want to make is this, that the city must retain a responsibility for these people beyond the $6 per day which they provide. And just as they provide daycare centers, they should provide people at much less cost than what it would cost for homesteads to come in and entertain, do the occupational therapy work, and do the physiotherapy for these people who are institutionalized. Well, do you think there's any further remark you'd like to make in connection with what you think the city ought to do in connection with nursing homes? Yes, I'd like to say that the city ought to forget their idea of homesteads, look more carefully at what they already have in existence, and supplement it if necessary to make them better institutions for these people to live in. Well, thank you very much, Dr. James M. Rosen, President of the New York City Nursing Home Association.