The housewife who goes to buy food today must spend $10 to buy what $7 bought a year and a half ago. She must spend $10 to buy what $7 would have bought a year and a half ago. The cost of living is still climbing. In the past four months, it has risen at the rate of 16% a year. Wholesale prices are rising too. They affect every industry and trade, and they are soon translated into retail prices. Since the middle of 1946, wholesale textile prices have gone up 32%. Metals have gone up 36%. Building materials have gone up 42%. Wholesale prices on the average have gone up 40%. The harsh effects of price inflation are clear. They are felt by wage earners, farmers, and businessmen. Wage earners are finding that bigger paychecks this year buy less than smaller paychecks bought last year. Despite generalities about high farm prices, the income of many farm families cannot keep up with the rising costs of the things they buy. Small businessmen are being squeezed by rising costs. Even those who are well off are asking, How long can it last? How long can it last? When is the break coming? In addition, price inflation threatens our entire program of foreign aid. We cannot abandon foreign aid, nor can we abandon our own people to the ravages of unchecked inflation. We cannot allow the strength of this nation to be wasted in our people's confidence in our free institutions to be shaken by an economic catastrophe. We shall be inviting that catastrophe unless we take steps now to halt runaway prices. Our immediate approach to the problems of high prices and inflation should consist of three types of measures. One, to relieve monetary pressures. Two, to channel scarce goods into the most essential uses. Three, to deal directly with specific high prices. The way to reduce monetary pressure is by restraining the excessive use of credit. At a time when the economy is already producing at capacity, a further expansion of credit simply gives people more dollars to use in bidding up the prices of goods. Consumer credit is increasing at a disturbing rate. The amount outstanding has risen from six and one half billion dollars in 1945 to more than eleven billion dollars today. Even more rapid expansion is underway now because the controls on consumer credit exercised by the Federal Reserve System expired November the first. These credit controls should be restored. Also, some restraints should be placed on inflationary bank credit. Legislation is required, moreover, to prevent excessive speculation on the commodity exchanges. Another effective weapon against inflation is increased savings by the public. Every dollar that is saved instead of spent is a dollar fighting against inflation. In order to encourage additional savings, the government should intensify its vigorous efforts to sell savings bonds. The second part of the program to curb inflation is to secure the most efficient use of scarce goods and otherwise channel their flow so as to relieve inflationary pressures. Grain, for example, is too badly needed to permit wasteful feeding to livestock. Steel, as another example, is too scarce to be used for non-essential purposes. Legislation is required to authorize the allocation of scarce commodities which basically affect the cost of living or basically affect industrial production. In these limited areas, inventory control powers are also needed. Authority to allocate transportation services should be extended. In addition, existing export control should be continued and strengthened. Goods that we cannot wisely export must be kept here. And the shipments we make must go where they are needed most. Profiteering in exports must be prevented. The measures which I have already discussed will, when taken together, aid substantially in relieving inflationary pressures. For large segments of the economy, they should be adequate to meet the requirements of the present situation. However, there are limited areas of acute danger in which these measures cannot be regarded as guaranteeing adequate protection. For example, present forecasts indicate that we are likely to have less grain and meat next year than we have this year. The pressure on the prices of these foods would then become increasingly great. If these pressures are permitted to bring further sharp increases in food prices, they may well set off a chain reaction that would spread throughout the economy. It is surely better to take timely action to check adverse forces at particular trouble spots than to wait until general inflation has become so serious as to require drastic controls over the whole economic life. Therefore, we need a third group of measures to combat inflation. Legislation should be enacted authorizing the government to impose price ceilings on vital commodities in short supply that basically affect the cost of living. Basic elements in the cost of living are food, clothing, fuel, and rent. In addition, the legislation should be broad enough to authorize price ceilings on those vital commodities in short supply that basically affect industrial production. This will enable us to stamp out profiteering and speculation in these important areas. This does not mean that price ceilings should be imposed on all items within the classes I have mentioned. For example, price ceilings would not be necessary for staple food and clothing items not in short supply or for any delicacies or luxuries. The same principle of selective treatment would apply to industrial items. This selective treatment of a relatively few danger spots is very different from overall wartime price controls. Even should the shortages of a few commodities at the consumer level remain serious for a time, I believe that the fair distribution of such commodities can be largely accomplished without consumer rationing. But no one can foretell exactly how serious some shortages may become next year. With serious shortages, a free market works cruel hardships on countless families and puts an unbearable pressure on prices. I therefore recommend that authority be granted as a preparedness measure to ration basic cost of living items on a highly selective basis. Adequate protection from high prices and unfair distribution can be assured only by establishing authority for price ceilings and rationing in the fields of critical importance. It takes several months to set up an organization and make the administrative arrangements necessary to put price control and rationing into effect. Thus, the only prudent course is to establish the authority at this time so the necessary preparations can be started. If we fail to prepare and disaster results from our unpreparedness, we shall have gambled with our national safety and lost. If the government imposes price ceilings covering a specific area of production, it should in all fairness have the authority in that same area to prevent wage increases, which will make it impossible to maintain price ceilings. This authority should be granted, although I believe that there would be few occasions for its use. I am confident that if the cost of living can be brought and held in reasonable relationship to the incomes of the people, wage adjustments through collective bargaining will be consistent with productivity and will avoid an inflationary round of wage increases. Next to food, the most important element in the cost of living is rent. Under the modified rent control law, rents are rising at the rate of about 1% a month. A 12% annual increase in rents imposes an intolerable strain upon the family budget. The rent control law should be extended and the weaknesses in the present law should be corrected. I am well aware that some of my proposals are drastic measures. No one regrets more than I the necessity for considering their use. But if we face the facts squarely, it is apparent that no other methods can safely be counted upon to protect our people from the dangers of excessively high prices and ruinous inflation. The American people want adequate protection from these dangers and they are entitled to it. It should not be denied them, nor should they be misled with half measures. Even with the authority to impose price ceilings, the government will intensify its efforts to obtain voluntary action. Wherever voluntary action will do the job, there will be no necessity to impose the government's authority. But the very existence of these powers should have a salutary effect. They will demonstrate to each of our citizens the importance of carefully weighing each step that might lead to higher prices. They will support expanded and more specific efforts to obtain voluntary action by businessmen, labor leaders, farmers, and consumers to hold prices down. All of the actions I have described are essential to a fair and effective anti-inflation program. I look upon them as short-run insurance against the impairment of our prosperity and the threat to our future development. We should all ponder the following questions. What would it avail a farmer in the long run if farm prices should go substantially higher, only to be followed by a disaster such as occurred after the First World War? What would it avail a worker in the long run to obtain inflationary wage increases if they were followed by a repetition of the bitter experience when 15 million workers were out of jobs? What would it avail a businessman to have record-breaking profits or even higher if they were followed by a depression which would imperil our whole system of enterprise? The program which I have outlined is one designed to meet the existing emergencies of inflation and exorbitant price levels. It is an emergency program which should be adopted to protect our standard of living for the immediate present and to make possible economic security in the future. But a program designed to meet a crisis cannot by itself be a program designed to build for the future. We must also make plans to prevent future difficulty of the same nature. Our long-range programs must stress ever-increasing production. To accomplish this for agriculture, we need a comprehensive farm program. We shall need programs to increase the use of farm products by industry and the consumers in this country when other countries become more nearly self-sufficient. Long-range national measures will be needed to protect the farm population against ruinous depletion in farm production and prices. To expand industrial output, we need a long-range program to overcome basic shortages. Even with the proposed aid from this country, the people of Europe this winter will be on short rations. They will be cold and they will be without many necessities. But our emergency aid will be definite assurance of the continuing support of this nation for the free peoples of Europe. The two problems I've been discussing with you tonight, high prices at home and hunger and cold abroad, present a challenge to the American people. We could choose the course of inaction. We could wait until depression caught up with us, until our living standards sank and our people tramped the streets looking for jobs. Other democratic nations would lose hope and become easy victims of totalitarian aggression. That would be the course of defeatism and cowardice. Our other course is to take timely and forthright action. If we do this, we can halt the spiraling of inflation at home, relieve hunger and cold abroad, and help our friendly neighbors become self-governing once again. We know that it is the heartfelt wish of the American people that action be taken which will overcome the obstacles to peace and prosperity confronting this nation. It is within our power to lead the world to peace and plenty. With resolution and united effort, we shall achieve our goal. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard an address by the President of the United States. And now, our national anthem. Great attention! The United States Heavy The United States American fundamentalist The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Communication to you and request that you deliver it to the President of France. It would be a great honor, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Good shape. The young Captain of the American Leader, Captain Smithies, is but 31 years of age. Mr. Whelan speaking. I am telling you that the amount of money which he collected and which he has already turned over, that's the best part of the post office department. They never hold on to money. It amounts to $73,000. $73,000. $73,000. The End The End The End The End Hey, Rico. Ready for another lesson? This I want to hear. Ah, leave him alone. He's doing fine. Okay, Rico. Ready for your lesson? Si. Yes. That's what I mean. Yes. Well, what do you know? He talks English. Almost. Yeah. I'd like to see you learn Italian that quick. Three weeks. Barnet get light on a port beam. New York tomorrow, with any luck. And listen to Rico. Well, what do we talk about, Rico? About this America. All right. What do you want to know? About the people. Jerks. That's what they are to read teaching that word, Rico. Jerks. Dope suckers. Ah, cut it out, Dave. Why? It's true, ain't it? Americans suckers for every gimme guy in the world. No sense to pay attention to their own troubles. Did you understand that, Rico? Si. Yes. I understand. A little. Well, what do you think? I think only that Americans must be very fine people to send much food, much clothes, to people they don't know at all. Yeah, and what do we get for it? Kick in the face every time. No, no, not the kick in the face. In Vigitano, they have much love for America. The love of a friend. What about Rome? This I cannot say, but in Vigitano... Oh, I never heard of a joint. You don't have to. Just remember that there are a lot more Vigitanos in the world than Rome. And an awful lot of people who feel like Rico does when they get that food without any strings attached. Ah, nuts. What is this nuts? Ah, just an expression. A word people use in America when they haven't got an answer for something. This word, I don't think I need. Nah. Oh, you got all the answers. I don't need all the answers, like you say. I say this. When people tell me Americans are good, all I say is yes. When they say no good, I say I'm just a simple Italian. I know too little about men and I, blaze. But when people save life of one, they don't know. That is good people. Bravo, Enrico. And I say this too. I think small people every place, Vigitano, Italia, New York, America, are like each other. Now I talk too much. I don't know the tongue so well. I talk too much. I say wrong thing. Maybe. One hundredfold, starring Joe DeSantos as Enrico Amarigatti, was written by Ira Marion and directed by Ken Joseph. Heard in the cast were Ira Statlin, Phil Sterling, Jane Harvin, Jack Farron, Cy Farkas, Barbara Coburn, and Al Riley. Music and sound effects by Frank Rosa, Jr. Herbert Ross speaking. Tomorrow, the Metropolitan Council of B'nai B'rith asks New Yorkers of every race and creed to spend as little as possible to spend as little as possible and to contribute the difference toward the purchase of food for the hungry people of Europe. Please send your contributions to the D-Day Fund, Wilkie Building, 20 West 40th Street, New York, 18 New York. We are certain your gift will be appreciated one hundredfold.