What are your real interests? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, what are your real interests? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around a definition of personal interests and their effect on your everyday activities, your choice of vocation, your relations with others, your use of leisure time. At the end of the program, we'll tell you how to get a copy of today's discussion, complete with a list of books and articles about your interests and their importance in your lives. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Some individuals have strong literary interests. They like to read and write. Some persons like to play an instrument, sing, or read about music. We say they have an interest in music. Others of us are interested in scientific things. Here today to discuss these very personal possessions we call interests, our likes and preferences are Erwin A. Berg, Professor of Psychology from Northwestern University, Blanche B. Paulson, Coordinator of the Division of Guidance and Counseling for the Chicago Public Schools, and Lyle Spencer, Director of Science Research Associates Incorporated. Mr. Berg, I called the interests we possess our likes and preferences. Are those words good synonyms? Well, it is, it's true, the likes and the preferences that we have, but it's a good deal more than that. I would say that our interests include attitudes, that is, a set or a readiness to act. It might even go further than that. Sometimes it helps if we think of them as the mainsprings of people or the motivating forces that cause us to act. Emotional responses to activities, I think of them. That's generally right. Yes, we could say that the interest is more specific since the action gives satisfaction when you indulge in it. Well, these interests and satisfactions then, Mr. Berg, does everyone have them? Yes, I would say as long as one lives, one has interests in some way or another. Now, we've made reference to literary interests and musical interests and so on. That indicates that they might be classified. Ms. Paulson, do you have any way of classifying the interests that you test for in your work? Yes, indeed. There are various classifications of interests, some with quite descriptive titles for the areas. For instance, there are outdoor interests, people who like to walk or who like to garden, or mechanical interests, those people who like to tinker with machinery. And then there are people who like to work with numbers, who enjoy taking care of treasurer's accounts and clubs. There are almost as many different interests as there are people who've made tests for them. I think you could add a few more to that that are pretty commonly used, such things as persuasive interests, the kind of thing that salesmen are usually good at. A used car salesman probably have an interest in persuasion. Is that true, Mr. Spencer? That's a good example. Another one you might mention is social service interests, the kind of things that nurses do that almost anyone who likes to help other people has in a large amount. Still another one would be literary interests, the kind of thing that people who like to write or speak are usually high in. Could we lump them up in this fashion, Mr. Spencer? Human relation interests, that is, interest in dealing with persons, sometimes helping them like a doctor or a nurse, sometimes maybe selling them something the way a salesman does, and then also an interest, on the other hand, in dealing with things like mechanical things, working with tools and so on. You tend to make me feel that these interests are very separate and distinct categories. I wonder if that's a, is that a true picture? Well, they'd be separate categories, but they come in patterns. That is, each individual has more than one interest. In other words, a person might have strong literary interests and music interests at the same time. Yes. They very frequently come together. Is that a pattern that you frequently see in individuals, Mr. Spencer? That does happen to be one of the kinds of things that we notice frequently. Also, we notice that people that are high in certain patterns may also be low in other things. For example, a musician is not likely to be too high in his scientific interest. Yes, you find that. For example, you often get an accountant, for example, liking very much to deal with numbers. He may enjoy that sort of work very much, but he may not have high interests in social service activities where he's dealing with people. We often hear the expression that orators are born or senators are born or mechanics are born. I'm wondering, that indicates that we have these interests from the very moment that we begin our life here on Earth. Is that true, Mr. Spencer? No, I don't think that we could say that that was strictly true. As a usual thing, our interests are developed out of the kinds of experiences that we have. Although it is true that many of these interests begin to develop at a very early age. These interests, of course, change a lot until we get into the period of adolescence. But after about the age of 14 or 15, they're relatively stable. Mr. Spencer mentions the fact that experiences are important in developing interests. Are there any other important factors here, Ms. Paulson? In developing interests? Yes. Well, of course, the social group to which you belong helps to set some of your interests. That's certainly true in various neighborhoods. For instance, where youngsters like to drop out of school early, they do so partly because the interest of the group is not in completing school. You could say, then, if you were to summarize it, that interests relate largely to learning. However, you do have, in addition to that, I think an occasional factor of, what do we call it, physiology? For example, boys aren't interested in girls until they get into high school. Maybe we could say that's a wonderful thing. All right. That would indicate, I think, this question. Do men generally tend to possess different interest patterns in women? Yes, I think we can usually say that that's the case. That, again, would illustrate what Ms. Paulson has already mentioned here, that the interest pattern come out of the experiences that we have. All right. I think you've all indicated that interests affect our daily lives here in our discussion to this point. I would like to ask, just specifically, where do they touch us in our daily living? For example, are they important in the vocation that we select? Well, they're probably much more important than we've usually given them credit for being up to now. I remember that Elmo Roper made a study some time ago of factory workers, and he found that more than half of the industrial workers over the age of 35 said that if they could go back to the age of 15 and select their careers over again, they would choose a vocation that was different from the one in which they were then earning their living. Well, of course, that's important. That is interest in their feelings. But there are other factors in success also in the vocation and other factors which should be considered in selecting a vocation. Oh, that's very true. This is only one of maybe half a dozen factors. What are some of these factors, Ms. Paulson? Well, there's ability, for instance. Interest and ability are different things. Of course, that isn't the sole criterion, though, is it? You find that this study that Mr. Spencer referred to, you had people with very high ability, individuals who were successful in professional fields like doctors, lawyers, dentists, professors, and so on. A good many teachers were in the group, and when they were asked, would you choose a different career if you had it to do over again, 29%, nearly a third, of the people in the professional groups said yes, they would. I think too many people go into a field or choose a job largely on the basis of the economic return that is offered. We often find that no matter what type of vocation the person is in, he isn't properly suited for it, but usually by the time you get through with all the training necessary for one of the professions, it's too late to go back and start over again. I feel fairly strongly that it's important for us in our schools to help young people find out about their interests as early as we can. Yes, and of course, schools offer wonderful tryout opportunities for them to test out their interests. There isn't any doubt about that. And it gives them the chance to have a wide variety of experiences but they may never have a chance again. In other words, you think the best way to find out what you're interested in is to have a great number of experiences and then make your choice on that basis. That's right. Although, Mr. Bourne, there's another point here I think that we ought to bring in and that is that a person can't select an occupation or a career solely on the basis of what he wants to do. There are lots of things that we don't like to do that we have to do. It's possible then to start out doing something that we don't like to do and then develop an interest in that job. Or sometimes you could say that you get a partial satisfaction in your job. No job will satisfy all interests. I think Spencer would agree with that. But then also, you must recognize that you can get a kind of an outlet in other areas, in hobbies or organizations that you belong to, which will give you some opportunity to satisfy the broader pattern of interest which you happen to have. Perhaps sometimes people are dissatisfied with their occupations after they've been in them for some time because when they chose the occupation, they thought in terms of one interest. Whereas nearly every vocation requires a number of interests. And as we work at our jobs, we sometimes have to do some things that we don't enjoy doing so very much. That's right. And it doesn't mean either that because you like a given activity that you're necessarily going to be successful in it. Many people are very successful in things that they really don't like to do. A little rule of thumb that we sometimes use is that if you do like something, it perhaps adds 10 or 15% to your likelihood of success in it. In other words, can we summarize here by saying that interests are not the whole picture in and of themselves but a very, very important part of the picture when we select a vocation? Yes, as Mrs. Paulson said, it's one of the half a dozen or perhaps more factors that we ought to consider in the selection of a vocation or in the other areas of life too. I'd like to stress stability there. A lot of times an individual may be interested in something but not have any likelihood of success because of a rather marked lack of ability. If I might take myself as a case in point, I enjoy the ballet but weighing 200 pounds, I assure you, I'll never be a ballet dancer. Does the 200 pounds help you at all, Mr. Berg, in being a psychologist? I don't think it does as a psychologist but you should have seen me out in the garden yesterday when I was wielding a cultivator. You have the outdoor interest then? Well, not only that, I got enough weight that I can make it move, you see. I have the interest maybe that go with being a psychologist but the ability that go with being a coal heaver. All right. Mrs. Paulson is another good example of it right here. She wrote a book for us about a year ago. It was a book entitled Counseling Adolescents. It was the first in a guidance series that we were doing and there are going to be seven or eight books in the series but she finished her book nearly a year before any of the other authors did. Maybe you've got pretty high literary interest. Well, I appreciate that. A lot of ability. Yeah, a lot of ability too. Probably a lot of fortitude or maybe leisure time. Can we accuse you of that? Well, it depends on who's listening. A little while ago, we talked about job patterns which I think probably would indicate that this myth that there is a certain job for every person. is really a myth. Would you like to elaborate on that a bit, Mr. Spencer? Well, I am sure that there's no such thing as the one job for one person. There are something like 30,000 different ways of earning a living in our country and I don't doubt that any ordinary individual could be successful in scores or maybe even hundreds of them. But you would still say that he would be more successful if he would get one of those jobs that had high interest for him. I think it would increase his likelihood of success although of course there are all these other factors to be considered. And we mentioned those previously. One other thing you might say about that is that the more education a person has the wider variety of choices in coming to select a vocation he has which I think is one of the important reasons why it's so important for every young person to get as much education as he can. Is there any danger in always doing the thing that interests you? I'm thinking along this line many times we all know we have to do things that don't interest us particularly I'm wondering if it isn't good training once in a while to do things that really aren't high on our interest scale. Yes, I think it's an excellent idea and I'm not referring to the old Victorian notion of doing some things that you don't like to do every day or as Mark Twain said he did two things like that every day you know he got up in the morning and went to bed at night but there are so many aspects of any job that there are bound to be some of them that are thoroughly unpleasant. We noted that there are 30,000 over 30,000 different ways of earning a living well you know those are grouped into job families and these families just like any family are related consequently I think we can say that an individual could do a lot of things and do them well but there will be aspects that he thoroughly dislikes about it. Thus he'll have to get satisfaction in another area for example where you work and with whom you work is just about as important as the actual activities that you must do each day. I'm glad you mentioned that Mr. Berg because after all when you select vocation you are usually selecting something more than just a 40 hour a week job. You could really call it you're selecting a way of life. Yes you are because you'll be thrown with the people and their outside interests will have something to do with your life as well as their job interests. I think we're all acquainted with persons who have a great number of interests and who scatter their activities. Maybe some of us right here in this group do that very thing. Is there any danger of following too many paths of following too many interests that you might have? Well we've found quite a few people who have such a wide variety of interests and such a wide variety of talents that it's hard for them ever to settle down to any one thing to do it well. It's the old business about the jack of all trades and the master of none. A little while ago we talked about experience being an important factor in choosing a vocation and in finding out just what your interests are. I think without too much imagination we know that there are certain persons who would never have the opportunity to have the necessary experiences as a basis upon which to make a vocational choice. I'm wondering are there any other methods that a person might find to find out just exactly what his interests are? Well you can do a number of things if it's impossible for you to get in direct contact with the field by working in it. You can always do some reading about it or also you can use psychological tests. They're not perfect, they're not infallible, but they are about the best measures that we now have for measuring interests and for that matter abilities and aptitude also. Miss Paulson, you've used those tests on various occasions, do you place much faith in them? Well yes, I think they're excellent for assisting people who don't really know what they are interested in. Of course my work has all been with high school students and they get a great deal out of taking such tests. Well you wouldn't say though, Mrs. Paulson, would you, that that's the sole basis on which to measure? Oh my, no, I should say not, but you have to have some corroborating evidence before those test measures mean very much. Well that's the way we like to think of it too, that really they're another tool to use in helping a young person find out the kinds of things he might like to do, particularly when he hasn't had too much practical experience himself. It's just a tool and somewhat of a sample of what the situation is today. That's right. I'd like to stress one thing that bothered me quite a bit and that is the tests are excellent. They are very good measures provided that they are interpreted by a skilled counselor. I think that is absolutely essential because very frequently you find individuals trying to give psychological advice or personal guidance by mail and it just doesn't work out. You need an individual who will take into these consideration these other factors that Spencer and Miss Paulson mentioned and they are perhaps the most essential thing. The tool which is used must be applied to an individual. Certainly no test is any better than the person who interprets it. Right. And that's one of the things that have worried us a good deal at one time or another. There are a great many psychological crackpots around town here who are making a business out of doing it without adequate psychological training. We get a great many calls from people asking, well, where can we go to take these tests? I think the safest thing to do usually is to go to the school principal or superintendent and get his advice about where you can get this kind of psychological help you need. Well, your university department of psychology very often will help or the college of education in any college or university will make recommendations of that sort too. Yes, anyone that you can get whose opinion you can rely on. Or professional psychological associations too. Yes. Indeed. In the state of Illinois, I think, there is an accrediting agency set up by the state psychological association that has a list of reputable agencies from which you can get help. We've been spending a good deal of time here on vocations and the relationship of interest to the selection of vocations. We mentioned earlier that interests are also very important in school and marriage and some of the other things that touch us in our everyday living. How important are interests in success in school? Ms. Paulson, you've had contact there. Well, of course, interest is a very large factor in success in school, but I wouldn't say that it was by any means the only factor, and sometimes it isn't even the important one. There are many youngsters who have done very well in classes in school in which they really didn't have very much interest, and sometimes they develop an interest just from the very effort that they are putting into the work. Well, isn't it also true that frequently these interests of children in school is part of the pattern of the group to which they belong? I think you told me one time about the problem of dropouts in Chicago schools, that in some neighborhoods it's actually fashionable to drop out of school. Well, I wouldn't say that that's just true. Chicago, that was almost a statement, just as you've given it, made at the work conference on life adjustment here in January. Well, I remember when I was in school, at least in prep school, it was usually considered that C was a gentleman's grade. It wasn't good to get two good grades. I'm going to say you have the reverse of that, and you anticipated my point a little bit. You do get some individuals who go to school and keep going to school because it's the thing to do. It is. They want to keep on going to school simply because the people in their neighborhoods or their particular group say, well, of course you must go to college. The fact that you have an ability and so on is beside the point. It has social value. Well, isn't it true that there's very little relationship between the types of people who go to college and the amount of ability they have? Is that an embarrassing question? Well, there's some relationship between that and the amount of money they have. I'm sure that's right. All right. Something that's puzzled me all of the way through this discussion. It seems to me that it's very evident that a person knows his own interests, that you do the things you like to do. There's no puzzle about it. As a matter of fact, you can just sit down with a piece of paper and a pencil and list the things that interests you. Is that true? Well, that is a surprising thing, but it generally is not true, Mr. Boren. Our studies have shown over a period of many years that relatively few young people really do have too good an idea of what they like. Now, that's in part due to the fact that they haven't yet had a wide variety of experiences, but it's also due in part to the fact that many young people think they would like to become a lawyer, let's say, or a businessman solely on the basis of whether their father did that or some friend they admired, without getting down and thinking through their own interest pattern. Then we may be unaware of the real interests that we have. Is that the point you're making? I think that most people are at least unaware of many of their interests. Well, also, I think we could say that a lot of times we're misled by one factor and think that's the only factor in interest. You find a lot of youngsters, for example, feel that because they are good speakers, they ought to become good lawyers, and actually the speaking ability required of a lawyer is not necessarily of a very high order. Well, they think in terms of one interest, whereas they have to have many interests on a job. Of course, the more career information that young people have, the less they will make that mistake. What about success in marriage? Is it a good idea to know your interests and the interests of your perspective made? Oh, yes, indeed. Individuals with like interests make successful marriages. By and large, that's been substantiated time and again. Activities, things that they like to do together that they can share, whether it's working out in the garden or woodworking or whether it's some other activity that both husband and wife enjoy and that they can indulge in as a team, really makes for a successful marriage. Perhaps even wiping and washing the dishes. Oh, no, no. Anything but... I do hope the day doesn't come when we administer tests to find out just exactly who should be married and who should not be married. Would you agree there? Well, there are surprisingly good battery of tests on that, as a matter of fact, that have quite good predictive possibilities. All right. We've talked here, I think, about success in school and success in our vocations and even success in marriage. In closing, I'd like to throw out this question. Are interests important in the hobbies we choose and the leisure time that we have? Yes, they're very useful in a number of ways. One of the things that hobbies particularly serve a great need in is that they provide outlets for the interests that are not cared for by the job. And as we noted earlier from some of the things Miss Paulson and Mr. Spencer said, the job doesn't provide an outlet for every interest that a person might have. Particularly creative interests. Yes, yes. So many jobs are routine in nature. Well, it's frequently said, I think, that unless a person has an outside interest that has nothing to do with his job, he's not likely to be a well-adjusted person. You don't believe, then, that if you have a hobby, it's an indication that there's something wrong with your job? It's just the opposite, I'd say. It's an indication that you are an adjusted person and it will probably make it easier for you to do a better job on your job. I think you've indicated in this discussion that we live happier lives when we develop new interests. Mr. Berg, will you tell us specifically what each of us can do to develop these new interests? Oh, yes. I'd suggest that the individual get new experiences, new experiences in clubs, in social groups, travel, read widely, talk to people, particularly people you haven't met before, join an adult education class. In general, I'd say strive to keep flexible and adaptable, receptive to new activities and to new ideas. Yes, get out of the old groove, buy a different magazine next time, or try a non-fiction library book on a new topic, or listen to another kind of radio program. Then explore the new ideas and the ideas that those ideas suggest. One new idea leads to another in a kind of chain reaction. If I can summarize this, I guess we can say that most of us have about as many different interests as we have different groups to which we belong. people have a lot of people have. One of the problems most people have as they grow older is that they reduce the number of groups and activities in which they are engaged. That's a very important part of adjustment, having a wide variety of experiences and continuing to have them. One of the things we've found that often works is that in this exploring of new ideas and new activities, it helps a lot if you have someone to do the exploring with you. May I say, Miss Paulson and gentlemen, you have underlined in this discussion the importance of discovering our real interests so that we can go ahead and develop them in building a more satisfactory life. You have gone further to suggest ways of discovering our interests and utilizing them in our everyday activities. Thank you. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Are Your Real Interests? If you'd like to know about your real interests and how they affect you, we have a suggestion. You can get an exact copy of today's discussion and an extensive list of books and articles about your interests for just 10 cents and coin. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Or to make sure you keep up with our future discussions, discussions about the war in Korea, the home front, you can subscribe to the weekly transcripts. One dollar for the next four months, two dollars and 50 cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Erwin A. Berg, Blanche B. Paulson, and Lyle Spencer. Now our moderator, Leighton Bourne, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand discusses the question that is in the mind of every American. What does Korea mean to America? Our guests will be Captain Michael Fielding, author, lecturer, and world traveler. William McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University, and Frederick S. Marquardt, telegraph editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, What does Korea mean to America? Listen every Sunday for the Northwestern University reviewing stand. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. .