This is Charlie Barnett and the band on Here's to Veterans, especially transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. The top flight bands of the land for all you ex-service men and women and your families. Yes, the welcome mat is always out to all you veterans with a show tailored for you and something extra special later on that means money, money to you. And right now, a special tune for special folks, for you veterans, here is Skyliner. Skyliner Skyliner Skyliner Skyliner Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from Charlie Barnett and the band, presented, transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians, James C. Petrillo, President, whose members have donated their services and this station, which has contributed this time, in the public interest. And now, a word from your station announcer. The best way for the concept of equality to такие and communication, angels, taught, and wanted to Cadillac and, young man, can see in groups andFit talented,cade, etc., not just in groups of your neighbors? They'reOur<|hi|>? They're doing Yeah omdat you were a part of the group.怖, Should I say? Sure. What hockey are you doing? My PhD, Marvin Ried? That's what hockey is 나는 damomenade. Our starship isaman. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ We at the Great Artists Series are transcribing this Here's to Veterans show, especially for you ex-servicemen and women and your families, in cooperation with the Veterans Administration and the American Federation of Musicians. We open our program with Poldini's delightful musical portrait of the Dancing Doll. we're going to take you through the performances of the sixp end cry from the choir, when you talk to our libid vessels for the Keys. Now we've got you from here on the pregnancy, here's to remember to hear from our gr Broken judicial movimiento playing. This is how it's broken through the Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mail it to the VA. In just a little while, I shall tell you where and how to apply. Now, here's the orchestra in a little novelty, playing a tune I'm sure most of you know, Chopsticks. And a little old tenth of the great booty, let's go through it. But, though I was going to slow off the large pipe. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Give your permanent address. Use only one application. If you send in two, you'll just be making things difficult. And please don't write letters asking for information. To answer your letter, the VA will have to remove your application from its place in the insurance dividend production line. That means unnecessary delay for you. One last point. Don't expect your money a week or even a month after you apply. Send only one application. Fill it out completely, and your dividend check will be mailed as soon as possible. Probably soon after the first of next year. Now, how would you like to hear some string music? Say, a typical Hungarian number featuring the 20 fiddles. Ye know who by wrote this piece and called it, which translated means, hi, Katie. ere Friends Cake thoughtful and forgie. Then you'll just expect your money a week. Then you'll be your g chor Sebtu, binnen Menschen einer cos delta invest sounds like, but you know they're not lessons anymore. Then you'll be able to speak to the 20 fiddles by saying you say whether the first and second concert had been permitted to cut off the seat of the front, but for you there's more than the two of them. Then you'll have to leave. So I'll bring it to second floor. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
