Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, what do the small colleges face? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the aims and problems of our small liberal arts colleges. Can these colleges survive? Should they survive? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Kerry Cronice, President of Beloit College in Beloit, Wisconsin. When was Beloit founded, Cronice? Mr. McBurney, Beloit was founded in 1846. It is the oldest institution of higher education northwest of Chicago. How large a school is Beloit? We are set up to accommodate 600 men and 400 women. In recent years we have been running a little larger. Right now we are a little smaller. Do you consider yourself a small college? Yes, indeed we do. We also present Frank Sparks, President of Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Indiana. How many students do you plan for down at Wabash Sparks? The Rip Roaring 500. Well I know these are all men. They are. Why? We are true to our founding fathers. We were started as a liberal arts school for men and we have remained a small liberal arts school for men for a hundred and nineteen years. Now you are co-educational, aren't you, Cronice? That we are. We haven't remained so true to our founding fathers for in 1895 we accepted women. Do you have sister institutions there at Wabash? We have a co-educational institution in which there are some sisters. I see. Well now our third speaker is W. W. Whitehouse, President of Albion College in Albion, Michigan. Is Albion a strictly liberal arts college, Whitehouse? It surely is and always has been. It's church related and has an enrollment of eleven hundred. Sixty percent are men and approximately forty percent are women. Well now joining these three college presidents is Simeon E. Leland, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Northwestern University. Leland, do you consider the College of Liberal Arts out at Northwestern a small college? I certainly do. We have about twenty one hundred students in the College of Liberal Arts, whereas on the Evanston campus and the eight schools of the university there are something in the neighborhood of seventy three hundred. And these figures that run up into the thousands, nineteen or twenty thousand that you see for Northwestern, are mainly for people who take single courses downtown. And so I still think that even though we have about twenty one hundred students, we're still relatively small. In the College of Liberal Arts? That's right. Now what do these colleges that you men represent here today stand for in American life and culture? What is their place in higher education, Cronus? Well we regard them as standing for the education of the whole individual. A whole education for each individual who is in attendance with a good deal of emphasis on the moral and spiritual values. I think they're wonderful educational laboratories. They have student bodies that are large enough and the students are carefully selected. and they are under private control so that they can move quickly and adroitly into fields of experimentation. And each institution over the country is carrying on one or more important educational experimentations constantly. There is also a very definite personal factor there. The relationship between faculty and student is very close. Administration to faculty and student. And there is also a high degree of participation in things beyond the mere attendance of classes. Which we think is exceptionally fine training. Now what are the traditions, history and setting of the typical small college White House? The typical small college has been usually of a church related nature. It has usually existed in smaller communities although there are many exceptions. Particularly in modern life. They have usually been very, they have been private in their pattern. Do you accept that picture of the small college Cronus? Yes I do substantially. Of course Beloit as a city is not so small. Beloit is a community of some 40,000 and it has grown up literally around the college. We have intimate connections with the community and would not wish it otherwise. Nevertheless, President White House is correct in saying that most of these schools are in small urban areas. This isolation poses a problem for the private college that's different from the municipal institution. That is you must provide in the community of the private college a total community life. There are just as many extracurricular activities on the Wabash campus with a student body of 500. As there would be on a campus of 5,000 or 20,000 students. The participation of the student in the extracurricular life we look upon as part of his total educational experience. And we spend approximately one fourth of our total educational budget on this extracurricular activity. And the student's chance for participation in a small institution is much greater therefore than in a large. Oh very much. The average student at Wabash has part in three extracurricular activities of a varied nature. Unless there is a very rigorous control in the selection of students, the institution, this liberal arts college that is in a large city, has a tendency towards population in breeding. The small college in the small community stresses its residential factors, which is not only participation and classroom, but also the idea of living together away from home. But might not that lead to a kind of provincialism in some cases? We would say not, especially if the students come from a wide area, from different backgrounds and different traditions, etc. Your provincialism needs to be watched, however. But you know, you remember that the idea of the professor and the cloister came out of the notion that they were of the world, but not a part of it. And that the college was located away from the centers of sin and the centers of the city, so that they wouldn't be a part of the life that might contaminate them. But that picture of the past is no longer true. Right. For the simple reason that we have field trips, our students, as part of the program that Sparks spoke about, is constantly making contact with patents on the outside, visiting industries and cities, etc. A short time ago, I was reading the catalog of McAllister College, an institution now in the center of St. Paul. And I noticed it in one of their early catalogs, the statement that the president personally, or one of his professors, would go to the railroad station and meet all the new students and escort them to the campus, so that they would not have the opportunity to be tempted by the sins even in St. Paul. Contrast that with one of the lines developed by one of the great state universities recently, to this effect. Send your son and daughter to a very complex institution, so that they will be prepared for the complex and chaotic life, which they'll have to enter very soon. Well, now, does the kind of program that you gentlemen are sponsoring here, I take it you're talking about the small, privately endowed liberal arts college, does that kind of a program make sense in these times, Leland? I think it makes a great deal of sense. Not only does the liberal arts college provide the most attractive education for the person himself, in terms of breadth of culture and interest, but it also provides the best possible foundation for a vocation or a profession. And the typical leading professions, law and medicine, are built at the moment on a solid liberal arts foundation, and preferably on four years of college work. Your problems of the world are so essentially technological and, and, and, um, specialized. And, and coping with these world problems, you've got to get at it from the spiritual point of view, the, the, the moral and the ethical and the political approach. And, and that is the area of the liberal arts college. May I say that we have been greatly pleased that the way the professional schools, such as medicine, engineering, and law, are stressing more and more less of the professional subjects in a liberal arts college, and more of the general liberal, uh, subjects for the stress on the humanities, the literature, the social sciences, etc. That's even true for the graduate schools of business administration, and peculiarly enough, it is also true for the graduate schools in some of the specialized sciences. There's been a, a recent, uh, article by Knapp and Goodrich of Wesleyan University, which shows that the top three percent of the colleges in the nation, in the production of scientists, are, surprisingly enough, forty small liberal arts colleges, only six state schools, and only four large private institutions. So, in the, er, very area of science of which you speak, Sparks, the cold facts of the record suggest that these small liberal arts colleges are doing the best job in the preparation of scientific men. The, the head of one of our leading national research foundations has recently endorsed what Kroonice has just said, that the great feeders of the graduate schools and the professional schools are the small liberal arts colleges, particularly in relationship to their per capita student population. Now, you, you gentlemen speak very enthusiastically about the, the role of the liberal arts college in our society today. But just, uh, a bit defensively, perhaps, uh, is this, uh, liberal arts education a kind of, uh, an expensive luxury in these critical times, Sparks? Well, it's, uh, expensive, but it's not a luxury. Uh, I think it ought to be made clear that, uh, none of us in the liberal arts colleges would contend that the liberal arts route to maturity is the one and the only one available to, uh, able students. One of the great strengths of American education is that we have such a wide variety in, in, in our educational institutions, and so many different environments in which a man can, uh, discover himself. But Sparks, uh, we do not have an expensive luxury in our liberal arts colleges, really. We provide the, the cheapest and perhaps the least appreciated of all of our country's necessities, because I think it's true to say that we prepare for the masterful administration of the unforeseen. And it's somewhat easier to do that, I think, in a small, well-integrated institution than in a large, complex one. Is there a trend away from these, uh, these small liberal arts colleges? I think there is both a flow and an ebb with, uh, perhaps more flow than ebb, but the trend isn't all in one direction. There are many influences that are bringing the, uh, small college into focus as against the, the large mass institution. I think the current enrollment figures for this year seem to indicate that there's been a slightly greater decline in enrollment in the colleges and in the, uh, in some of the professional schools. But it seems to me that that's one of the, one of the evidences of, uh, wartime, uh, hysteria, and is only a temporary condition. That's partly to, uh, Leland also, because the high school classes this past year were quite small, and the larger classes of the past have been flowing through into the professional schools. There are many factors that enter into that, of course, the, one of which, uh, is the military situation. By and large, your military training units have been established on the campuses of large enrollment, and they have attracted a certain number of boys, uh, interested in military training at the time they were going through college. You think then this is not a long time trend to which I refer? I think it's something we need to be aware of, uh, and, and really it's a spur on the part of the administrators of, of liberal education to let the public know more accurately and more aggressively what the, the merits of liberal arts training are. I think you'll find conclusive proof of that if you look at the curriculum of, of the professional school. Either the student gets his liberal arts training in a liberal arts college, or where it's omitted in the entrance requirements to the professional school, that school introduces liberal arts subjects in its own curriculum. So that you, the quotient of subject matter is increasing year by year. There is also something of a flowage of students from large complex schools, students who have been in professional, uh, curricula, to the liberal arts colleges. And I do not feel as pessimistic as perhaps has been suggested here. I think that the decline in enrollment in large schools is perhaps greater than, on the whole, in the small liberal arts colleges. You know, as we talk here, it, it occurs to me as educators that we are using this, uh, phrase, a liberal arts education rather, rather glibly. Uh, what is a, a liberal arts education anyway? Well, a liberal arts education is one which is broadly based and doesn't pretend to specialize until the student is ready for specialization. And as a result of it, it enables the student to draw on that background and meet the situations that come up with flexibility and adaptation and a great deal of confidence. In fact, some of our leaders in the technological fields are stating that they would rather take a man with a good general liberal arts education and indoctrinate them themselves in the intricacies and the details of the business, whether it's running a newspaper or anything else. We have a way of saying at Wabash that the function of a liberal arts education is to acquaint a student first with his, uh, spiritual and cultural heritage. Second, with the world in which he lives. Second, with the world in which he lives. And third, with a, a desire to use his life, uh, for the service of mankind. Well, fundamentally, the liberal arts college is, is an educational institution whose curriculum is designed to embrace the largest possible share of the knowledge of the world in approximately four short years of life. There's one aspect here that, uh, sparks as mentioned. I might state it like this. For a lot of these colleges, while there are universal common denominators in all educational institutions, each has its own personality and needs to cultivate its distinctions and strengths. The church-related college, for example, possesses in its very conception and organization a distinct pattern. In addition to the general public, it is also obligated to serve its own constituency. Religion not only has a definite place in the curriculum, but special efforts are made to cultivate an atmosphere conducive to loyalty to high religious principles and practices. The church-related liberal arts college must not retreat from its original role. It must be rugged in the interpretation of religion. Now, Mr. Whitehouse is certainly correct, but I think we ought to emphasize again and again that there's no feeling on the part of the liberal arts college that it should have the exclusive, uh, uh, that it should be exclusive in the educational field. The thing that makes American educational system strong is this duality in our system. The private institution along with the tax-supported institution. How are these, uh, private institutions supported? How are these, uh, small colleges? How do they carry on financially? Well, there are three normal sources of income for the private college. The most important is that of tuition. At Wabash last year, forty-five, forty-three percent of our total educational budget came from fees. The second largest, uh, source of income for most of our private institutions is the income from endowments. Last year at Wabash, uh, thirty-five percent of our operating costs came from income from endowments. Then the remainder, twenty-three percent, came from gifts. And the gifts, uh, arise from alumni, from, uh, from friends of the college, from the board of trustees, from corporations, and from, from any source. Perhaps you'd like to hear some actual figures in the operation of Beloit. This past year, we had total expenditures of one million two hundred and forty-one thousand dollars. And that sum was arrived at through the income area as follows. Four hundred and ninety-eight thousand dollars from tuition and fees. The area of which, uh, President Sparks was just talking about. From endowment investments, a hundred and four thousand dollars. And from the operation of our auxiliary enterprises, such as dormitories and commons, five hundred and thirteen thousand dollars. Then we also received a hundred and twenty-six thousand dollars in gifts for current purposes. And in addition, about a hundred and seventy-five thousand dollars for capital gifts. Now this is a budget that would be rather similar for all schools of our type across the country. I was just going to ask that question. Is that the case? I have the impression that a good many of these smaller colleges live much closer to their tuition. Well, Beloit probably has a higher percentage of income from endowment than the average liberal arts college. And so would Albion. Very much so. Our endowment is approximately five million. And I think that the three colleges represented here are on a very high level. Of course, we're pretty good. One of our difficulties in raising money, as a matter of fact, is that we're pointed out as wealthy schools. Though really we're very poor. Well, all institutions are poor. They can use any given sum. That's a good point. And they certainly need it. Northwestern receives about thirty-seven, thirty-eight percent of its cost from fees. And I think the importance of that to the parents and to the student is considerable. Regardless of how much it costs a parent to send the student to college, we have a greater financial interest in his success than either the student or the parent. Right. And if they want to let them fritter away their time, we can't afford to. Well, now, is this private education that you gentlemen are discussing expensive education, Sparks? It costs just about. Nationwide, the private schools are spending on their educational programs almost exactly per student, what the public institutions are spending. But the incidence of that cost is somewhat different. That is the difference. The private institution has only the fees, its endowment, and subsidiary income to draw upon, whereas the publicly supported institution has all the tax duplicate, the sources of public revenue, and the bulwark of its borrowings and debts to help support the cost of education. In addition to the differential in tuition rates as a result of drawing on the public tax reservoir, there is also a growing tendency to take extensive scholarship funds out of the tax budget also. The private college has to get its scholarships solely from private enterprise. Of course, that's offset to a large extent by the increasing scholarship offerings for the private schools. The American public is a very generous public. Correct. The American public is generous whether it wants to be or not in the tax support of these young men and women in the colleges and universities because they provide about $500 a year per person in that support. Are you talking now about the tax supported institutions? Yes, I am. Well, now in opening this Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, our announcer referred obliquely at least to the crisis which some of these privately endowed institutions face. Was he extravagant in that question? Do you face a financial crisis in these institutions, Sparks? Well, we face problems but then I think private education in its total history in America has faced problems. I really do not think it's any more difficult to raise money to operate Wabash College now than it was 119 years ago when it started. Our first president rode all over the Middle West on horseback trying to get contributions to support Wabash College. And at least I drive a Cadillac. And ride in an airplane occasionally. Occasionally. May I say that the topic is what are the small colleges facing? I think a more positive approach is how they are facing this. Some of us have tremendous confidence in the future of these private small colleges. And the giving of the last few years has been very significant testimony to that particular point. And I think there is an arousal of public opinion to keep these private colleges alive in order to support the dual system which is native to the American soil, the dual system of education. And also because private enterprise after all is the source of their continuity. If private enterprise fails, then of course they will become state institutions. I think everyone around this table shares that confidence, White House. And I'm glad you put it precisely that way. I would certainly take a middle position. We have much to face that is serious before us. But we have confidence growing out of our very rich past. And we feel, as White House has so well expressed it, that the country simply is not going to let expire perhaps one of our fundamental systems within this nation. In the first Beloit contracts there was this interesting phrase, your salary will be $600 a year, comma, if we can raise it. And I agree with Sparks that our work is a little easier in these days than it was then. If you can raise it, I think, is the clue to the problem of the college for the future. Now however much we may have confidence in our ability eventually to do so, the task is becoming increasingly difficult. Part with higher costs due to inflation and the decline in the value of the dollar, the increasing tax rates and their effect upon philanthropy, and finally the decline in the interest rate for the return of productive endowment, the problems are in from a financial standpoint, are becoming more and more difficult each year. May I say this? I think that I think one of the dangers threatening the private college is the danger threatening private enterprise, namely state socialism, that draws levies from people to a point of confiscation and to the limiting of initiative and the adventure in private enterprise. I think both Dean Leland and President Whitehouse have made good points, but from the optimistic approach, businessmen particularly are aware of this matter that faces education. And I think one of the encouraging things that is happening all over the country is the response of corporate business management to this problem that faces business as well as education. The recognition that there is a common state between private enterprise and private education. Sparks is entirely right and that trend is encouraging to all of us, but I still think that the American people do not really believe in education, which they describe as the inculcation of the incomprehensible into the ignorant by the incompetent. Now, as a matter of fact, I fear for the state universities as much as I fear for the liberal arts colleges. I have here some figures compiled by the Central Association of College and University Business Officers for 486 schools and colleges and universities, comprising about one million students in their enrollment in the middle states. And here are the salaries. I think the general public ought to know the average salaries of the persons who serve the nation so well in those institutions. The deans averaged a grand total of $5,919. The full professors, $4,800. The associate professors, slightly over $4,000. The assistant professors, $35,74. And the poor instructors, $3,052. I compiled some figures on our faculty not long ago, and in 1939, the average salary of a professor was a little over $5,000. If we gave him the same purchasing power today as he had in 1939, we'd have to pay him over $17,000 a year. These same problems, however, face individuals in every occupation in our land. And one of the grand things that this type of program is doing, Mr. McBurney, is to bring this subject and its acuteness to the attention of the American people where the support has to come from. I would like to express my own particular attitude here, and that is we have profound respect for our public institutions, and great spirit of cooperation exists between us. We are fighting a common battle in terms of building a better civilization. Yes, not for the defense of our institutions. That's right. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Do the Small Colleges Face? We want to thank our guests today, Carrie Cronise, President of Beloit College, Beloit, Wisconsin. Simeon Leland, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Northwestern University. Frank Sparks, President of Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Indiana. And W. W. White House, President of Albion College, Albion, Michigan. We invite you to send for a copy of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns with news about next week's program. Next week we are going to explore a somewhat different type of question. How does humor affect our lives? Seated around the table with us will be Dr. Rudolph Dreikers, Chicago psychiatrist. Walter B. Scott, Professor of Dramatic Literature in the School of Speech at Northwestern University. And Ed Civola, who is currently writing Ernie Pyle's old column for the Indianapolis Times. I hope you will join us for what promises to be a most interesting program. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Cawper. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. This is the world's largest network, the New York Times,牛 that follow. You are a ד unstoppableちゃん아예요. One group network is a single darf 761 aspect. You know that if you can sort of handle somebody and not only one of the uncles. You are a Perchéaniemia berth.