CItsc Cause a creepy sort of night for blind festivals reading live The End The End The End The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, is receiving the Office of the French Line of Liberté, which has just made such a triumphant entrance into the harbor of New York City. Mr. Whelan. The Mayor came up the bay the day before yesterday with the reconditioned ship. And I assure you, Mr. Mayor, that as it approached the Statue of Liberty, I actually saw the Liberty bow a salute to the ship of Liberté. And it's a great pleasure for me, Mr. Mayor, to present you these distinguished guests. Mr. Whelan, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, I haven't inquired yet what the hour was when Mr. Whelan saw the Statue of Liberty bow to the Liberté. There may be a story in that. We'll look into it later. The purpose of being here today, ladies and gentlemen, is because a ship happily named the Liberté arrived in our port on Wednesday on the initial voyage of her reappearance in the transatlantic passenger field. It falls to my pleasant lot to welcome here today, in the name of the people of the city of New York, Mr. Gaston de Ferre, Minister of Merchant Marine of the Republic of France, Mr. Jean Derrida, Minister, Counselor of the French Embassy and Representative of His Excellency, Mr. Henri de Mornay. French Ambassador. Mr. Jean-Marie, President of the French Line. The lady who had the honor of sending it down the ways. And the commander of the Liberté, Captain Nervais Lehuade. I not only welcome the captain, but I congratulate him on his long and splendid record on the seas, a record that is now entering its 40th year. The captain is no stranger to our port, for his commands included the Normandy and the Ile de France. The story of the captain as a sailor is an epic of the seas. It began on August 17, 1911, when at the tender age of 14, he signed on the Augusta as the ship's boy. Two years later, he qualified as an apprentice seaman on the old French liner, the Champagne. This marked the beginning of his service with the French line. In 1915, when he became a seaman, he quit the sea to enlist in the first Zouave in World War No. 1. At the close of hostilities, he signed as a deck officer on a schooner. After a year on this sailing vessel, he became a deck officer on a steamship. It was not until 1921 that he received his captain's ticket. But he had to wait another 15 years before he obtained his first command. Again, when wanton aggression led to World War II, the captain left his command to join his country's colors. That his services in war were as outstanding as his services in peace is eloquently attested by his many decorations, which include the Croix de Guerre and the Medaille Militaire. The captain also enjoys membership in the Legion of Honor. It is worthy of note that 39 years to a day after the captain began his maritime career as a ship's boy, he sailed from Le Havre as commander of the Liberté. Captain, I, sir, personally, and in behalf of the people of our city, wish you many, many years of productive service in the peaceful passenger trade with a fervent hope that it will not be again interrupted. Welcome to New York City. APPLAUSE The Minister of Merchant Marine of France. Mr. Le Maire, mesdames, messieurs, je veux tout d'abord vous remercier de l'accueil très chaleureux qu'a réservé au paquebot Liberté et à ceux qui, à bord de ce paquebot, étaient venus à l'occasion de ce premier voyage représenter la France, le peuple de New York et les représentants de New York. Ces remerciements, quand il s'agit de l'arrivée d'un navire de la French Line, ne sont pas des remerciements banals, ordinaires, comme on a l'habitude d'en adresser dans les cérémonies officielles. Les bateaux de cette ligne ont en effet ce caractère un peu particulier, et ce n'est pas la marraine qui me démentira, qu'ils doivent en quelque sorte être baptisés deux fois. Une première fois quand ils sont lancés et une deuxième fois quand ils arrivent à l'occasion de leur premier voyage à New York. Sur le bateau, pendant le voyage, à ceux d'entre nous qui, comme moi, venaient aux États-Unis pour la première fois, on disait « Vous verrez la réception de New York ». Mais aussi, parfois, on se posait la question et on se demandait si cette réception serait aussi enthousiaste qu'avaient été d'autres réceptions antérieures pour le Normandie ou pour l'île de France. Et je peux dire, sans crainte d'être démenti, que à la fois parmi l'État-major, les dirigeants de la compagnie et ceux qui représentaient le gouvernement, il y avait non pas une inquiétude, mais un sentiment d'attente pour savoir si véritablement New York accueillerait ce bateau avec autant d'enthousiasme et ainsi consacrerait la nouvelle unité de la French Line. Eh bien, je peux vous dire que notre attente n'a pas été déçue, bien au contraire. L'accueil de New York a été pour nous non seulement chaleureux, mais à certains égards même, très réconfortant. Quand, arrivant au large, nous avons vu se diriger vers la liberté tous les bateaux que vous aviez envoyés à notre rencontre, quand nous approchons du port, nous avons vu les avions, nous avons vu les hélicoptères, les vedettes, les bateaux-pontes qui sont célèbres dans le monde entier, nous avons compris que si la liberté allait vers New York, New York allait au-devant de la liberté. Et quand, accompagnés, conduits par ces remorqueurs, par tous ces navires, par toute cette foule qui, sur l'eau, nous entourait, nous avons approché de la ville, nous nous sommes, et cela a été particulièrement sensible pour ceux qui arrivaient la première fois, nous nous sommes trouvés face à face avec cette ville de New York qui est dressée en face de l'océan et qui accueille avec son immense stature les étrangers qui arrivent, cette ville de New York. Vous savez, pour beaucoup de Français, elle représente tous les États-Unis. Tous les Français connaissent New York de nom. Tous les Français ont vu des photographies des gratte-ciels de New York. Tous les Français ont vu des films sur les défilés comme celui que vous nous avez fait faire tout à l'heure dans les rues, dans les rues de New York. Et s'il est exact que New York n'est qu'une des capitales des États-Unis, s'il est exact que ce n'est pas tous les États-Unis, néanmoins, je crois qu'on trouve ici la représentation exacte de ce que sont les États-Unis. Ces magnifiques bâtiments, cette animation dans les rues, cette gaieté de la population montrent bien quel est le goût du travail, de l'efficacité et quelle est la bonne humeur avec laquelle les tâches les plus difficiles sont entreprises par le peuple américain. Et je crois qu'on peut dire que si New York ne représente pas tous les États-Unis, le peuple de New York représente bien le peuple de l'ensemble des États-Unis. Ce peuple nous a réservé un accueil particulièrement chaleureux. Puis-je vous raconter que, rappeler une anecdote que racontait Mme Jules Moch, la première fois qu'elle est venue ici, un chauffeur de taxi lui faisant faire la visite de la ville en 1947, je crois, à la fin de la visite et sans le lui avoir dit, sans lui avoir demandé, l'a conduit vers le pire 88 et lui a dit, s'arrêtant là, c'était ici que venait Normandie. Ce chauffeur de taxi qui, ainsi, faisait accomplir une sorte de pèlerinage à une Française, lui-même considérait qu'un peu de l'histoire de la France se trouvait là, au bord de ce quai où avait accosté ce magnifique navire que représentait notre pays. Et il pensait qu'en amenant là une Française, il lui témoignait ainsi la sympathie qu'éprouvent les Américains pour les Français. Puis-je vous raconter une autre anecdote hier après-midi, moins sérieuse, celle-là, vous m'en excuserez, hier après-midi, essayant d'aller dans un cinéma qui était plein, étant pris dans la queue, nous nous sommes fait connaître et nous avons dit que nous sommes des Français venus par la liberté. Et tout de suite, on nous a conduits, on nous a fait rentrer devant tout le monde sans que personne ne proteste parce que les Américains ont compris que c'était des Français qui étaient de passage à New York. Je voulais vous remercier de tout cela, vous dire que nous sommes heureux d'avoir pu participer à toutes ces manifestations qui sont la preuve, la preuve vivante que l'amitié franco-américaine est solide, qu'elle est durable. Nous l'avons connue à l'époque des dures épreuves de la guerre, nous l'avons conservée pendant la paix. J'espère que l'amitié franco-américaine durera encore longtemps et que grâce à elle, la paix et la liberté seront sauvegardées. Merci. The chairman of the board of the French line, Jean-Marie. Mr. Mayor, at about this time last year, we were received in your absence and your name by the president of the city council, Mr. Vincent Impiliteri. The reception pleased us greatly, but still more the fact of its repetition today under your personal chairmanship. Coming after the splendid welcome which your committee has organized under the able direction of our friend Mr. Grover Wallen, upon our arrival in the harbor last Wednesday, coming after all the courtesy that have been extended to us during these two days, this reception proves on the part of the city of New York a continued sympathy for our endeavors for which I wish to thank you most heartily. As for us, the occasion of this meeting will show you, I hope, that the French line is working hard to develop its services in the port of New York and regain its former position on the North Atlantic. This first voyage of the Liberté represents for us in that direction a very important step. her name associated with the statue which points to the travelers coming to your shores is symbolic of our common traditions and ideals. In thanking you, Mr. Mayor, for receiving us on these last birthdays of your very busy and successful time of office as first magistrate of this great city, I wish to one may congratulations and best wishes for you in the important diplomatic functions which you have been called happen to assume by the President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Captain Luede, Master of the Flagship Liberty. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Madame la Marine, Monsieur le Ministre, Mesdames, Messieurs, on behalf of the French crew of the Normandy, I am very happy to seize this opportunity to thank the people of New York for their kindness for this crew during the war. They were so many friends. They were so kind of us. It is certainly the best way to say thank you from the deep of my heart. Many people in New York asked me to compare Normandy to the Liberty. It is very hard to compare two ships. Each one is different. But what I can say, I was on board the Normandy when the Normandy received the welcome of New York. I was on board the Liberty for the welcome you gave to her. I can say the welcome were exactly the same. Then the heart of the people of New York is exactly the same. And for this, I have to thank you all. Now, on board the Liberty will try to give to our passengers the same atmosphere we gave to them on board the Normandy and uphill to have many American passengers on board. I thank you to them in advance. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the ceremony. Will the pleased people remain seated until the mayor and the distinguished guests leave the chamber. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer has received the officers of the Liberté which came to New York Harbor just the day before yesterday. Those of us in New York Harbor who remember the reception to the Normandy which the captain of the Liberté spoke of can recall no greater reception ever given to a ship than that which was given to the Normandy at that time, only to be equaled by that given the Liberté just the other day when this magnificent reconditionship came into the harbor. If the Statue of Liberty bowed to Mr. Whelan as the Minister of Marine mentioned, why I think it was merely paying back the tremendous courtesy and the splendid organization to the mayor's committee that has always been the tradition of Grover A. Whelan's handling of this very diplomatic and could be difficult job. And the mayor of the city of New York was the most gracious host here today as he had instructed the mayor's committee to show every possible gesture of courtesy and welcome to the members of this great boat from the captain down to the last member of the crew. And another commentary is the fact that we are fortunate indeed that we have this beautiful city hall with its magnificent colonial interiors, its crystal chandeliers, to let the French realize that it was designed by a Frenchman in the best traditions of American good colonial tastes. And they see here a sense of proportion that is exhibited at the Beaux-Arts in Paris, Paris, Paris, which is the capital of contour, beauty, and we might say coordinated effect. The Statue of Liberty itself was a gift to the school children of France. So the factors here today all come together in this welcome to the crew of the steamship Libertais, from the captain down to the last member of the crew. And New York was most happy, as it always is, to welcome those who have accomplished. That is all from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. State has been with us, Brad .