This is Bill Leonard to introduce the 35th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air, and it can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Anyway, we're going to talk now with Milton V. O'Connell, who is the Deputy Director for Public Information of the New York State Civil Defense Commission, and we'll be bringing ourselves up to date on the state of civil defense in New York State. After a year's activity in civil defense, I think it's been just about that long, Mr. O'Connell, is there any appreciable change in, well, the public's attitude toward the need for civil defense in the state? Generally, no, Mr. Leonard. By that I mean that the average man, woman, and older child has not yet apparently convinced themselves or been convinced, despite our efforts, that there is a very serious danger or a possibility of an atomic attack. Well, don't you think that's because an atomic attack happily has not come, and the threat of such an attack does not seem appreciably greater today than it did, say, a year ago, when we first became extremely conscious of the possibility of such an attack? That's very true. It hasn't happened here. But that doesn't mean that it can't happen here or won't happen here. The attitude, Mr. O'Connell, of civil defense officials, I presume, is that there is no reason to believe that there is any less of a threat of an atomic bomb, our potential enemies, having had another year in which to perfect one, that there's any less of a threat now than there was a year ago. On the contrary, I think that the general consensus among informed public officials in the civil defense field at every level, federal, state, and city, is that the chances are greater today, and they are going to be increasingly greater as the enemy has the opportunity to stockpile and the desire to seize the resources that we have in this country. I would like to put in a quick word here for the ordinary citizen who may be a little bit lethargic in his feeling about civil defense. It's very difficult to maintain, the human being what he is, to maintain an attitude of fear when nothing happens over a long period of time. You can hardly blame a person for not continuing to be stirred up about something that may happen when it doesn't happen. What can the civil defense authorities do to make the public continually aware? Well, I think that the answer to a lot of that, Mr. Leonard, is the fact that we Americans are basically optimists. We don't believe a terrible thing can happen until it does. And then, because of the very nature or the horrible situation, we suddenly rise with that same American ability to overcome hardship and handicap, which has been true ever since this country was founded. But in the meantime, the attitude, and it's understandable, the attitude of the busy man and woman in any walk of life is, well, it hasn't happened, it can't happen, or it could happen, but I don't think it will, and it probably won't happen here in my town, or it wouldn't happen to me. Just like the automobile driver. He never hits anybody, and nobody ever hits him until it happens. It's always somebody else, the other fellow. And unfortunately, when a thing like this happens, there are going to be so many other fellows that may include a lot of us. So that, on the other hand, too, there is the complex life that we have. We have so many things to do in business, or in our household duties, in the case of the women, or we have entertainment profusely given by radio and other means, that our time is so occupied, we haven't time to think about this first aid for survival that we ought to be thinking about individually, each one of us. And there's nothing much officials can do about that. We can protect, or try to protect, by equipment, the fire engines and all those things that are going to be called in, the blood plasma and so forth. But it's going to be hard to get to 15 million people in this state individually and say, look, Mr. Jones, Mrs. Jones, do you know how to set a splint on a broken arm in case your wife or your husband is the victim of a bombing? It starts right with the individual, right in the grassroots, right, the man and woman at home or in the office or in the plant or in the school, wherever they may be. They've got to know how to help save themselves and the organized work of civil defense then goes into the group stage and officialdom can operate with equipment and so forth. Nevertheless, Mr. O'Connell, there are certain things that you said officialdom, that would include the whole, the local civil defense organizations and the state civil defense commission. You mentioned the parallel of a driver in a car. It's never going to happen to him and he's perhaps not prepared for the results of an accident or prepared to avoid one when it comes. But the manufacturer of the automobile has done a great deal already to protect. He's put in a shatterproof glass. He's put in steel construction. He's made tires as blowout proof as possible. That is the job that the civil defense organizations are doing if we can turn that parallel right over to civil defense. That's correct. And that is where the city plan and the state plan throughout the state of New York comes into play. It's the blueprint for action by the officials in the time when the thing happens so that the individual in mass can be moved or handled or rescued or fed or housed or clothed, whatever the situation requires. But the public themselves, it's understandable. The public is not to blame so much as they are to be educated, informed, and their questions answered. They're entitled to that. We try to do that. We've had some rather interesting drills and test exercises in certain upstate cities. We will have something of that order here in New York. How have they worked out? What did they show? What did they prove to those people who either took part or did not take part in them? They proved this, and it's exactly what the State Commission wanted them to prove. We were not looking to see how efficient the organization was or how well it worked, but what the weak spots were. Because the time to correct deficiencies in your plan of action, in your preparation, in your physical doing of civil defense is not when the bomb has hit, but over and over again in advance of any emergency so that action becomes automatic on everybody's part when an emergency takes place. Do you believe, Mr. O'Connell, that if we suddenly faced a war situation where we were really engaged in an all-out war, and if it should so happen that a bomb was not immediately dropped on Rochester, on Binghamton, on the city of New York, do you think under those circumstances the public would rally immediately around civil defense and its importance? I personally do. I think a certain percentage. I'd modify that a bit. I don't think that anything short of an actual attack with the horrible example of what the results are will ever bring even 95% of the public to taking action they still will maintain, as they did, you know, a lot of people after Pearl Harbor and during the years of the war when our boys were being killed in large numbers and wounded. A lot of people still were more interested in their own pursuits. If the war didn't come close to them, in the sense of any effect upon their lives, upon their entertainment or amusement, or upon the amount of food they were able to get, or the gasoline that they could use for pleasure driving, we never had 100% cooperation from the public. There will always be some people who will not do it until it hurts them, and then unfortunately in this kind of attack it's too late. And the responsible authorities must take whatever action they can, get whatever cooperation they can from civic-minded and really from citizens who have the long-range point of view who believe in that old Boy Scout motto of be prepared. Incidentally, Milton O'Connell, I'd like to ask you, we sometimes think of our own hometowns and our own state too much, what about civil defense in other states around the country? They're perhaps not quite as threatened with atomic attack as we feel we are here in New York. Has there been any all-out civil defense effort in any other states? Yes, indeed. I would say that probably the majority of the other 47 states have taken a certain amount of action. I say a certain amount because the degree of what they've done and how they've planned depends upon whether they consider themselves likely targets. It's obvious that where the big cities like Chicago, San Francisco, Los Angeles, New Orleans, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, they obviously feel, and with good justification, that they would be targets in an attack, whether it's atomic or otherwise. Now, those states, and in the case of Illinois, for instance, with their Chicago waterfront there, with the oil tanks and with the steel mills and all of the sinews of war that are located there, they can expect to be attacked. And those states that have those vital areas have made considerable progress in civil defense. It follows a general pattern. The planning, the execution of those plans are pretty much normal, just the same as you'd train one army division of infantry the same as you'd train another after you'd found out the most effective means of doing it. The states are doing it. We're not the only country that might be attacked by an atomic bomb. England, for instance. There's a possibility that if we became involved in a war with Russia, we would probably use the atomic bomb on Russia. Do we know anything about the state of civil defense in the countries of our potential allies or potential enemies? Well, let's take the latter first, Mr. Leonard. From the most reliable information that we have at our disposal, and it's pretty reliable, Russia probably has the greatest and most efficient civil defense organization existing in the world today. Well, they just tell people what to do. They order them, and they do it. That's the difference between their system and ours. We leave it to the intelligence and the free will of the Americans. A God-given right, the free will to do what we ought to do. But a lot of us don't sometimes. But there you are told, man, woman, and child, you will do this, and the penalty is a very severe one if you don't. That's regimentation to its highest degree. Coming to England, however, and England would be even more vulnerable, I would say, despite the long-range planes, than we are, because atomic warheads on rockets and all sorts of things could be launched from Russian positions in eastern Germany right now and land right in the part of the British Isles that they saw fit. It's a peculiar thing, but despite the horrors of the Blitz and all those people who suffered it in London and Coventry and other places in England knew, they had a great deal of the public apathy and lethargy for a number of years following the end of World War II. I can recall only a few months ago reading that they had parades in London with floats and so forth, the British civil defense officials to try and rouse out of the lethargy some of the British public who should certainly know better. On the other hand, they have definite training schools such as our representatives from the state have trained at in England and the relationship has been very close between this country and the British civil defense authorities and they are turning out professional rescue people, firefighters and so forth in a manner designed specifically for civil defense survival work. Again, it's probably understandable in the case of England having gone through six or seven years of constant alert and constant trouble in that regard that they would be tired of it, that they would hope that now the reward would be not having to worry about civil defense, but as you say, responsible officials in spite of public apathy and public lethargy are setting up the framework of an effective civil defense organization over there. That's true, but remember, vigilance, continual vigilance is the only thing that will save your life from the final analysis in these conditions. Well, that's a point I think that we've made before and is well worth making again. One last question, it's a kind of a technical question about the civil defense organization here in the state and for that matter in the city of New York and other cities, I noticed that there seem to be a great many former military men in key positions in civil defense at all levels, military men and people who are normally engaged in governmental activity. Is there a specific reason for that? Very definitely. And I think that I should point out before answering the question, Mr. Leonard, that the civil defense organization is in no sense a military one, but the training that the average administrative officer has had whereby he has organized, he has directed troops, he knows the instantaneous response and necessity when something happens. That's the basic reason why military and naval offices are predominating in civil defense circles. That they have the training and have the know-how which could be most useful if that crisis came. And love them no disaster. Thank you very much, Milton O'Connell, the deputy director for public information of the New York State Civil Defense Commission for being our guest on this program. And I'd like to reemphasize that the basic purpose of this series is to encourage you to think about your own plan for survival, both where you live and where you work. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. And this is the Civil Defense Radio Network. will continue to see it in a minute. I'll see. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.