The professional staff of the school system, it means the Board of Education, it means the Director of Real Estate, it means the Budget Director, it means all the members of the Board of Estimates. And because of the friendly feeling and determination on the parts of all those people to work for the best interest of our school children, that we have succeeded in accomplishing what we have. I say we, I've had no share in it, but I feel very proud in this accomplishment. And I want to say thank you to these people. First, on behalf of the parents, seated in this audience this morning is Mrs. Shapiro, President of the United Parents Association, Mrs. Olsen, Vice President of the Queensborough Federation of Parents Associations, and Mrs. Lindemeyer, Vice President rather of the Staten Island Association. If one man may take the liberty of talking for three women, I want to say thank you to the Mayor, the Board of Estimates, the Board of Education, the Director of Real Estate, the Budget Director, and all the others who have helped so wonderfully this year. And I want to thank you all, too, on behalf of the children. These children who are here this morning are not the actual beneficiaries of a new building directly, but they're part of our school system, and when any part of the school system benefits, the rest benefits also. I want to tell you just a word about these children. They come from a school not too far from here, 48th Street. There are, I think, 21 girls here. And the interesting thing about these girls is that no two of them have the same national background. Each one of these has parents who come from a different country than the parents of any other child in this group. And at one time, not so long ago, we had 35 children from that school about whom the same thing could be said. That is New York City. I'm very glad you girls are here, and I know that I'm saying thank you for you and for all the rest of the children in this wonderful construction program. I think, too, I should say thank you for the general public. When I see Mrs. Cohan in the back, who was once in our school system, then in the Parents' Association, and more recently a writer, I think she's a good representative of the general public. And the public, too, owes its thanks to all of you. And finally, as a school man, I want to thank you for the professional staff. Our teachers are going to be happy when they get into these new beautiful rooms. It will be a new inspiration to them and to other teachers because they know of the good things that lie ahead. Now, it's my special privilege this morning to single out three persons for special honors. These three persons are the three captains in this teamwork that I have been speaking about. For each of them, I have a beautifully found booklet. Now, the inside of the book is not too important from the standpoint of the pages and what's printed on them, but these pages are important for what they stand for. These pages constitute the programs of the various groundbreakings that we have had this year. In all, there were 18 such events, and each of these volumes contains the 18 programs of these historic events, the last two of which were yesterday. So, you see, we work fast. The last two programs were held yesterday, and this morning we have the found volumes. That's, of course, a secret. The first person that I want to honor is our beloved Mayor. I want to honor him for his leadership of the Board of Estimates in this fine program, and I again want to thank the other members of the Board of Estimates for their cooperation. I want to thank the Mayor for his generosity to the Board of Education. You didn't give us all we wanted, but we know the legal limitations under which you work. We like the fine statements that you have made from time to time showing your interest in the schools of our city. And we are particularly grateful for your courageous statement of about a week ago, in which you indicated to the general public how you are hoping to raise additional funds, and I know education will benefit. I should like to read, Mr. Mayor, before presenting this to you, a letter put in as a sort of preface to the programs. It's signed by the Honorable Andrew G. Claussen, Jr., the President of our Board, and Anthony Campagna, the Chairman of the Committee on Building and Sites. It reads as follows. My dear Mr. Mayor, the Board of Education desires to present to you a souvenir booklet containing programs of ceremonies incident to the breaking of ground during the year 1947 for 18 new public schools spread over the five boroughs of the city of New York. In doing so, the Board of Education wishes to express its deep appreciation for your enthusiastic support and cooperation, without which this tremendous undertaking could not have been accomplished. Your sincere interest in the furtherance of the program to provide improved educational facilities for the children who will greatly benefit thereby must bring to you the realization and satisfaction of a real public service to the citizens of tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Another two questions. All right. Uh, the mayor was the captain of our first team. Now we have another team. That, that team was the Board of Esther. But the other team is the Board of Education. And for that, I would like to present this to the President of the Board of Education, the Honorable Andrew G. Claussen, Jr. Mr. Claussen is a man of tremendous energy. Those of us at the Board of Education know that. We're grateful to him for the way he has pushed this program. We're grateful for the cooperation that he has always shown, for his willingness to spend hours of service in furtherance of this program. I don't know whether you girls have gone that far in civics, as you know that the members of the Board of Education get not one cent of salary, but we expect almost a full-time service out of it. It was a great pleasure for me to present that to you. Thank you very much. Thank you. I think perhaps, uh, we'll ask all three to say a little at the end, shall I? Yes. Oh, good. Now the third team. We have a team called the Committee on Building and Sites. Uh, it's the Board of Education under another captain and in another slightly different phase of its activity. The leader of that team is Mr. Anthony Campagna, and to Mr. Campagna, I'd like to present the third of these books. As I just said, Mr. Campagna is the leader of the Committee on Building and Sites. All members of the Board of Education are on that committee, and all help, and all put hours of service in that committee's work. But their leader is this gentleman. A builder by profession, he has given to this committee a kind of guidance and advice that you just cannot buy. He, too, like Mr. Clausen, has given hours of service to this committee, and he has been driving those of us who are on the professional staff to get this program through. We're glad we were driven. We're glad that the program has been accomplished. And I think that, uh, we owe much to you, Mr. Campagna. We owe you a chance to make a decision. Thank you, Mr. Campagna. That, uh, concludes my part of the program. I think perhaps we'll ask the Mayor, if he'd just like to say a word or two. Mr. Jensen, members of the Board, members of the Board of Estimate, the ladies who represent the Parents and Teachers Association, Mr. Shapiro, Mr. Olsen, Mr. Linderman, Mr. Campagna, and Chilin. You see what it's like to graduate. You saw that, didn't you? When I was called up here by the superintendent, he handed me this certificate. You see how happy I felt? Well, that's exactly how you're going to feel one of these days. You'll be very happy because you set out to do a job, and here is the record of the job having been done. No more talk about it. Just get it done. Now, Mr. Jensen, I accept this very gratefully. I think it was a nice thought on the part of the Board of Education, and on your own part, to come over here this morning and make a final record of the fact that the 18 schools that we set out to get started for the year 1947 is a finished job. And in presenting this to me, I accept it personally with a great deal of pleasure. But yet, it isn't mine. In truth, this belongs to the Board of Estimates. Frankly, these are men, every one of them, who are just as interested as I was in seeing this program go through. And to them, I know that you have in mind that my acceptance of this is simple, and on behalf of not only myself but the entire Board of Estimates. And speaking for the Board of Estimates and myself, to your Board of Education, at the end of our second year, gentlemen, you have been magnificent. You have worked in cooperation with the Board of Education, and you have worked in cooperation with the Board. We haven't had one single major dispute. All hands set forth to first isolate the problem, see what it was, and then within our means, as far as we could, to put it through. And in this building program, my deep gratitude to Mr. Campagna, not only for what he has done already, but because of the new thoughts and the modern approach that he has devised for the building of still further new schools. Something that will permit us to have adequate schools, even within the limited amount of money that's available for that purpose, which again is confused and complicated by the high cost of construction. I've had several discussions with Mr. Campagna, one of them was a long one, in which I was delighted to see how practically he has gone after this very important plan. I know that when we meet again next year, as with God's help we will, that Mr. Campagna's efforts on this regard will be clearly shown in still more schools, more schools, and better schools, and a helpful program that will permit us to get even more for the money than we're getting under today's prices. That Mr. Campagna is a very beautiful plan of yours, and I thank you for it. I don't think that this assumption is really valid. And I think that this would only hold up and lengthen the consideration of this entire question. In conclusion, let me ask just one question. A question which I already have asked in the Security Council. A question which is asked by a lot of people. How can we understand, how can it be explained that we are marking time, that we are marching without moving forward, both in the Assembly and in the Trusteeship Council? Why is it that we are... . Come to me, come to me, love of my life, love of my life, my life, my life. Come to me, love of my life, my love. Lena Horne, Love of My Life. Beautiful record. Beautiful thing. They're going to take my advice. I was just kidding at the very beginning about moving the... Ladies and gentlemen and children, although I am not in your midst today, I want all of you to know that you are in my thoughts. And through the medium of radio, I am extending to all of the people of the City of New York, and especially the children, my very best wishes for a Merry Christmas. This is a traditional period of good cheer and happiness, and I think each of us, were we to extend ourselves just a little bit to bring a bright shaft of joy into the life of one of our less fortunate neighbors, whether here or abroad, we would experience that delicate and satisfying thrill that comes to everyone who practices the simple lesson in charity and love. Ladies and gentlemen and children, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year to all of you. Christmas in Disneyland gosh, that's our Christmas Thania dividend. the tour Hooker Wing our鑑 Christmas it's a Shbb we always say Li ch Thank you. Thank you. And the warm-hearted radio listeners whose contributions have made this a Merry Christmas for our hospitalized children deserve the heartfelt thanks of a grateful city. Christmas is truly the children's season, and thoughtful and generous people who, despite the turbulence and pace of modern times, still remain sensitive to the welfare of children, demonstrate the true spirit of Christmas. Though I cannot be with you on this occasion, I am delighted to be able to participate in this fashion and to offer a Merry Christmas to our children and to all the men and women of our radio audiences. May God bless you all.