In a recent address, Millard Caldwell, Federal Civil Defense Administrator, said, Too many people are still playing ostrich in the face of atomic warfare. No matter what they are told, they are unwilling to accept the facts that confront us. They'd rather think about something more pleasant. Our national will to survive and to fight back can be no stronger than the personal preparedness of each and every citizen. This is the 15th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now here's Al Morgan, substituting for Bill Leonard. This week our topic is police protection. And our guests will answer questions on that subject that you listeners have written in to us. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First questions relating to the state as a whole will be answered by Sergeant Richard T. Barber of the New York State Police. Then local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about police protection in their individual communities. Our first question, Sergeant Barber, is from a listener in Buffalo. In the event of a bombing attack, there will undoubtedly be sabotage. Has the state arranged to protect industries against this? It certainly has, Mr. Morgan. Of course, the primary responsibility rests with the industrial plants themselves. But federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies have worked very closely with them. Together, we have developed detailed methods of sabotage prevention and protection. Naturally, our greatest concern has been for key industrial and public utilities plants. And most of those, internal security measures against sabotage are already in force. Sergeant Barber, would you say that nearly all plants have adopted protective measures? Yes, especially those that have great strategic importance. Furthermore, local civil defense directors, who are responsible for the protection of industries and utilities within their area, are combining the various plant protection plans with local civil defense plans. The result is a unified defense against sabotage that's as strong as we can make it. But the danger is always there, isn't it? Always, Mr. Morgan. For as long as any part of this country is in danger of attack. That's why every citizen should immediately report any suspicious acts or circumstances to his nearest FBI office or police department. This letter is from a listener in Syracuse. It seems to me, says the letter, that the water supply of New York State is highly vulnerable to pollution by an enemy. During the last war, our water supply was protected by armed guards. Are we going to do the same now? Well, first of all, the water supply is not as highly vulnerable as it may seem. You must remember that every major city has a number of sources of supply. And actually, only about 1% of the total water going into a city ever enters people's stomachs. Due to the various technical difficulties, it would be nearly impossible to carry out large-scale pollution of our reservoirs. A more serious danger is the destruction of critical installations in the water supply system. A plan for the protection of those critical points is now being developed. The type of protection and the number of armed guards obviously cannot be divulged. Another question about property protection. This one comes from Albany. If our city is bombed, there will undoubtedly be some looting. How do we protect ourselves against such hoodlums? In the event of a bombing attack, the regular police will have a tremendous task. First, in the preservation of life. Second, in the preservation of property. Thousands of auxiliary police will be needed to give us the protection we should have against looting and stealing. A well-trained auxiliary police force is of vital importance, even in the so-called non-target areas, so that they can take over if their local regular police are sent to help in the bombed area. In an emergency, proper protection against looting and stealing is entirely a question of how many local citizens have been trained to prevent it. Sergeant Barber, is New York State prepared with a program of auxiliary trained police recruited from the civilian population? Yes. New York State, through the Civil Defense Commission, has an auxiliary police program that has been underway for many months. We will realize that the regular police forces of the state, both in local communities and on a statewide basis, cannot cope with the after-effects of atomic attack by themselves. Therefore, the normal peacetime forces must be augmented to relieve our permanent police personnel for special disaster work. It is a policy of the State Civil Defense Commission that each community have a trained and equipped auxiliary police force, adequate to handle the added responsibilities resulting from enemy attack on any part of our state. The Division of State Police, in cooperation with local civil defense directors and police departments, is now engaged in the training of this auxiliary police force. How does the Civil Defense Commission handle special police training problems in various parts of the state, where in some cases, ideal facilities are lacking? Where requested, Mr. Morgan, the Division of State Police provides qualified instructors, training material, and courses of instruction to those communities that need them. At present, we are supplying a uniform course of instruction to many auxiliary police force training groups throughout the state. A final question. Does the state police itself encourage volunteers to work directly with the state police? The answer is no. Due to the highly mobile function of the state police, we have not organized an auxiliary police unit by our own. Rather, we have assisted in the organization of auxiliary units to establish local police agencies. In the event of any disaster, the Division of State Police in the main will be used to support regular and auxiliary police in the preservation of law and order in stricken areas. The auxiliary police will be responsible for assisting regular police in the performance of their normal and emergency functions within their own community. I definitely urge that every one of you offer your services to your local civil defense organization. You will be assigned to the type of duty for which you are best suited. This can be done by applying at your local civil defense recruiting office or police station. Remember, civil defense is common sense. Thank you, Sergeant Barbara of the Division of State Police. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. Meanwhile, this concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Al Morgan again, substituting for Bill Leonard. And probably the best man to answer questions about police protection in New York City is New York Police Commissioner Thomas Murphy. Our first question, Commissioner, comes from a listener in the Bronx, but it's been asked by many persons in letters we've received. It says, During some emergencies in the past here in the city of New York, the police department telephone lines have been strained to capacity. How is this going to be handled during a bombing attack? Commissioner Murphy, will you answer this question? Yes, Mr. Morgan. Comprehensive plans have been put into effect to take care of any contingency which might arise. The police department communications division is increasing the number of telephone trunk lines and installations in each command throughout the city. However, we do not depend entirely on the telephone. Other means which we utilize include the two-way radio system, which is in operation in all boroughs, walkie-talkie radios, field telephone sets which generate their own power, and the tele-typewriter system, and motorcycle messenger service. In addition to this, an entirely new communication network has been established. What does this new network consist of? Briefly, this network consists of five borough control centers operated by the borough presidents, one of which will be used as a city control center, and 26 report centers managed by the police department, and managed by members of municipal agencies and the air warden service. The report centers will operate around the clock. Well, now, suppose I needed police help. How would I get it? The public has been instructed not to use the telephone during an emergency. That is right, Mr. Morgan. Any call for assistance will be sent from specially designated telephones located on each air warden's post. These phones will be available 24 hours a day. A policeman or air warden will send the call to the report center covering the affected post. The call to the report center will start any of the needed specialized services rolling to the scene. We have been forewarned, and be assured, we are forearmed. Now a letter from a listener in Brooklyn. Is training for the auxiliary police the same as for regular policemen? Practically so. When a man has completed his civil defense training for the auxiliary police force, he will be fully qualified to move in by the side of our regular police force in the event of hostilities or other serious emergencies. He will render substantial assistance in preserving law and order, preventing crime, preventing panic, apprehending and arresting violators, regulating traffic, guarding and protecting public property, and performing such other police functions as may be necessary under such unusual conditions. Commissioner, how about women? Is there a women's auxiliary police unit? Yes, there is. We have an auxiliary police woman's bureau attached to headquarters division under the directorship of a female member with a designated rank of colonel. Well, the auxiliary police is the group we've been talking about. Well, suppose now you tell us something about the Air Warden Service. The Air Warden Service is the keystone of the civil defense structure. The Air Warden is the person with whom the public will come in contact most often. After an attack, he will report damage and injuries, assist the injured until medical aid arrives, and maintain order. He must have a thorough knowledge of his post and residence, the location of fire alarm and police signal boxes, fire hydrants, specially designated telephones, public shelters, and the location of sick or aged people who might need assistance to or from a shelter. Now here's a question from Queens. I understand that we don't have enough police to handle the normal run of traffic here in New York. How are we going to cope with traffic in the event of an alert? Mr. Morgan, there will be no normal run of traffic during an alert or enemy attack. Only vehicles displaying official civil defense emergency cards and identifiable fire, police, and military vehicles will be permitted to enter, leave, or to operate within the city. Provision has been made to immediately remove rubble, disabled vehicles, or any other obstruction from these routes. Civil defense vehicles must and will move, and in short order, we will have normal traffic also moving. Well, Commissioner, this is a question that we've had in a lot of letters. Shouldn't the police department mark off areas so that cars are not abandoned in the middle of the street? No. No. Marking off parking areas for this purpose would be most impractical. When and if the bomb falls, seconds will be of tremendous importance. There will be no time for a motorist to look for a marked-off area. Since time is of the essence, the following plan is the safest one. In the event of an atomic attack, the motorist will immediately park at the curb or as near to the curb as possible and away from corners and hydrants. He will leave his keys in the ignition lock, enter a public shelter or the nearest building, and stay near the center of the building away from windows. If there is no warning, he will pull into the curb, stop, turn off the ignition, cover his face and eyes, and fall to the floor. Our time is about up, Commissioner Murphy, and we're grateful to you for answering these questions, troubling listeners in the City of New York. Our topic next week will be Public Works, and our speakers will be Commissioner Berkran D. Tallamy, Department of Public Works New York State, and Commissioner Frederick Zermolin of the New York City Department of Public Works. Now this is Al Morgan reminding you that plan for survival is your plan for survival. You've been listening to the 15th in a transcribed series of programs, Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those about public works. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. The Civil Defense Radio Network. I sohum called Red Eagle. I fell in the open field, and we'll answer for more questions, but let's start starting быть. Take care of me. Let's start answering. items, let's start analyzing. let's start analyzing. Thank you. The Civil Defense Radio Network are환ISE. The Civil Fantasy Network is a Seriously onlimited 22, the Civil Defense Radio Network. A photographer's online 여기에 Careful the Civil Defense Radio Network is an smartest American Institute of Convention есте弟 neigned