Come, sweet home Thank you, Mr. Nelson. We are deeply grateful to you for your contribution to this evening's entertainment and particularly to civil defense. This is the first opportunity that the three services of civil defense, the federal, state, and city, have been able to get together in a joint effort to tell the people what has been done and that will be done in the future in connection with civil defense. It has been two years since most of us have been engaged in this work of alerting the public in the city of New York. The same is true of the state and the federal government. And a private organization has sent throughout the country this alert America exhibit, which you see on the far side of the armory floor. All of these are contributions made by Americans who believe in the democratic way of life and which we all hope will be preserved despite the threat that may be apparent to us from time to time. I am not going to take very much of your time except to thank all of those who have contributed to this exhibit. The carpenters, the riggers, the electricians, everybody, the engineers, the architects, all of them who have contributed to this exhibit deserve a monument because as you go through it, you will find an expert arrangement of what may happen to us if we are not prepared to meet an emergency. So therefore, it becomes my great pleasure to present to you a man who split the atom in a little place in the cellar of Columbia University and who was a part and parcel of the Manhattan Project and who presently is the Dean of Engineering of Columbia University. And he is still working with the government to perfect not only the instruments of war, but the instruments of peace. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you Dr. John R. Dunning, Dean of Engineering of Columbia University. Dr. Dunning. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Whelan, distinguished guests, American defense is in a crucial hour. Having survived the first period following the last war, where the development of the atomic bomb as a new method of mass destruction, having begun the first efforts of a civil defense system in this country, we are nevertheless faced with an international situation which can give no cause for complacency or lethargy in our whole state of national defense. Through the efforts of many thousands of people at every level in this country, in the countryside, in the small towns, in the cities, in the state, and in the nation, through the loyalty of these volunteers with very little support in terms of money, we have been able to erect the first phase of a nationwide civil defense program. But make no mistake about it. We have only begun for the advance in all the various types of weapons which may be used against us and the production of such weapons on a very large scale makes our problem increasingly difficult. You have seen the destruction of the atomic bomb. but the 1953 and 1954 model atomic bombs of our own design now being tested in Nevada show tremendously increased destruction. The hydrogen bomb with all of its possibilities lies ahead of us. And at the same time, while we have been talking in terms of atomic weapons and atomic warfare, make no mistake again, there have been very great advances in biological warfare and in chemical warfare of many types which have never been given any publicity in terms of our civil defense movement, let alone any effective action in designing civil defense systems to take advantage of the present state of our knowledge. we are therefore barely begun in our efforts to make this country strong through defense. But through the cooperation of our police and fire departments, of our educational system, our schools, high schools, universities, through the cooperation of our medical groups, public health, and our hospitals, and through the cooperation of our industries all over this country, we have begun a pattern that properly carried forward will mean that our country can be so prepared in defense that a third world war will not be worth the gamble on the part of a possible attacker. For all of us believe very firmly that in our strength, not only in our Army and Navy and Air Force for attack and for defense, but in the great strength as well of the citizens of our country alive to their real responsibilities which come squarely back to every man, woman, and child in this country where the real strength of our defense and our life as a nation must depend. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Dunning. One of the contributing factors to this exposition is a private organization known as the Valley Forge Foundation and I'd like to call upon the Brandon Byrne Vice President to say a word to us at this time. Mr. Byrne. Mr. Whalen, Mayor Impeletere, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, as a native New Yorker, I have a feeling in my bones that we're making history tonight. I think we're making history tonight because the world's greatest metropolis is going to demonstrate starting right now that its 8 million people are not asleep. I think we're making history tonight because we're showing to the rest of the free world that this key target city in this national citadel of freedom is ready for any challenge. challenge. And in making history, I think it behooves us to take time out and think of some of the marvelous contributions being made by our volunteer civil defense workers, our gallant home front fighters that Dr. Dunning spoke of. Never before in the history of our nation has our national safety depended so much on a handful of individual leaders. Those leaders are the foresighted men and women that have realized that Hiroshima ushered in a completely new period of warfare. In this Alert America exhibit and the marvelous New York State, New York City exhibits, and the various other exhibits contributed by private industry, you will see some of the few steps that you can take to become a member of this honored group, the group known as the United States Civil Defense Corps. And before I close, I would like here to acknowledge that in the some 60-odd cities visited so far by the Alert America convoy, I have never seen a city galvanized to action so quickly as this city has been in the last few weeks. In a period of two and a half weeks, the coordinator of Civil Defense, Mr. Whalen, and his competent staff, working as a team with the Federal Civil Defense Administration, State Civil Defense Administration, various other members of the City Civil Defense Corps, and private citizens such as those from the Valley Forge Foundation, have prepared an outstanding exhibit. Let this, ladies and gentlemen, be a reminder to us that civil defense is not for the other fellow, but civil defense is the number one job of every man, woman, and child not wearing the uniform of the armed forces. Thank you, Mr. Byrne. For two years, a very worthwhile and fine citizen of New York has labored day in and day out to make civil defense work. He believed in it, and therefore his enthusiasm was very great all the way through his efforts. And it's a great pleasure for me to realize that he was also one of my A's when I was briefly the police commissioner of New York. However, he has improved a lot since then, and he has come through life and made a very great place in the community and in the business world. And it's a great privilege for me to introduce to you the director of civil defense, Arthur W. Wallander. Commissioner Whelan, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to pay tribute to Grover Whelan for the excellence of this show here. He has certainly done a marvelous job in cooperation with the federal Valley Forge Foundation to carry this elite America convoy to the conclusion that you see it tonight. I think it's an excellent job, Grover, and it's great tribute. Never in the history of the world have we been confronted with disaster in concentrated form such as that which faces us today. However, the scientists in creating the atom bomb have also developed a form of energy which can be used to great advantage to mankind for peaceful purposes. yet we must not lose sight of the fact that it can cause untold havoc if used as a weapon of war. The elite American convoy seeks to call attention to the need for an awakening by the American people to the consequences of this terrible weapon of destruction, and that despite its frightfulness, we as a people can do something about it to protect ourselves. What is now a peaceful city with a beautiful skyline can be turned into a shambles of twisted buildings and rubble, the extent of which would depend upon how well we are protected by the defense forces. By that I mean how well we will survive. Tonight, as you pass by the various exhibits which stress the need for obeying the simple rules for survival and the establishment of a strong volunteer force for disaster relief, you will, I am sure, get a much better appreciation of what your local government is doing to protect its people. And at this point, let me say a word of tribute for His Honor the Mayor. He has not spared the money to make civil defense possible in this city. The question then arises, what are you doing about this situation? Ask yourself how well you are prepared with knowledge and training in civil defense in order that you might be of some help in the work of disaster relief. And I think that what you will see tonight will pretty nearly point out to you what there is to be done. Civil defense is a serious business. It warrants the sober consideration and study of the pattern for survival, and again I say which you will see outlined tonight. The approach to this problem by the local authorities is not an hysterical one. but as a result of painstaking thought with a full realization that this is serious business. And I repeat serious business. Unless we are properly trained and have been thoroughly schooled in what to do when an attack comes, only chaos and disorder of the worst kind will follow. The trained man or woman, however, will not panic but will immediately go about the task of relieving suffering by caring for the injured and getting them to casualty stations where they can properly be cared for, eventually to hospitals. This is everybody's fight, and the sooner we realize it, the better off the world will be. It is well to remember, too, that a nation or subdivision thereof that is prepared is less likely to be attacked. It is our job to prove to the world that if we are attacked, we will fight back. Thank you. Thank you, Arthur. It's a great pleasure for me to present the Chief Executive of the City of New York, the Commanding Officer of Civil Defense, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletarian. The Wayland, members of the Armed Forces, our Director of Civilian Defense, all of the staff workers, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I want to express the City's sincere appreciation and grateful thanks to Colonel Harry Distant, Commanding Officer of the 7th Regiment, for making available to the City of New York for the purposes of this exhibit, this wonderful armory. Many thanks, Colonel Distant. Tonight's ceremony is an important one in our efforts to make civil defense an integral part in the life of every New Yorker. The exhibits which we are about to see graphically tell the story of civil defense, how it operates, and why it is essential to our national existence. It was my great privilege earlier today to welcome to City Hall the great, alert America convoy of traveling exhibits on civil defense, sponsored by the Valley Ford Foundation in cooperation with federal, state, and local civil defense organizations. Beginning tomorrow morning, these exhibits will be on public display with special programs planned in the various boroughs. And because of this citywide observance, this week has been officially proclaimed by me as Civil Defense Alert America Week. It is our earnest hope that these exhibits, depicting as they do, the peacetime uses of atomic energy, the terrible story of atomic warfare, and the ways in which our nation, state, and cities are prepared to meet any threat of attack, will intensify our program of volunteer enrollment in civil defense. We have the word of no less a New Yorker than Secretary of Defense Robert A. Lovett that our nation's armed forces have a tremendous stake in the success of the civil defense program when he said, and I quote, we regard civil defense as a partner and a co-equal partner in the common defense of the nation. His predecessor, General George C. Marshall, likewise stressed that civil defense is an urgent military necessity. The industrial and commercial firms who finance the Alert America convoy ought to be commended for their cooperation with the responsible government agencies in making possible these exhibits. I want to take this opportunity of again publicly expressing the city's deep and grateful appreciation to Commissioner Arthur Wallander for organizing and setting up the New York City Civil Defense Organization. And I want to at the same time express the city's thanks to Grover Whalen, the city's coordinator of recruiting and public information, for the excellent job that is being done by him in arousing public interest in this vital community undertaking. Thank you. That was the Honorable Vincent R. Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York. You've been listening to the preview opening of the Alert America Civil Defense Convoy exhibit at the 7th Regiment Armory, 66th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan. Participating in this opening have been Mayor Vincent R. Pelletieri, Civil Defense officials, state and federal authorities, commanding officers of the armed forces in the area, members of the Board of Estimate, of the judiciary, and executives of large business organizations participating in the city's civil defense efforts. Grover Whalen, coordinator of civil defense recruiting and information for New York City, presided. All New Yorkers are invited to attend the Alert America Convoy exhibit, open through May 20th at the Armory, which once again is at 66th Street and Park Avenue in Manhattan, and you New Yorkers are also asked to volunteer for civil defense. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you.