This is Jack Benny. I was just asking Mary the other day if our 1950 Easter Seals had arrived. This is about the time the Society for Crippled Children in our state sends them to us. They'll be along soon. I certainly wouldn't want to miss out on being among the first to send in my contribution to help these kids who need expert medical care and special education to overcome their handicaps. Easter Seal dollars mean so much to crippled children. They mean the finest doctors, the best therapists, new clinics, nursery schools, and summer health camps, and all the things that will help to put the youngsters on their feet. They know that life can be good and they want their chance to enjoy it. We can't afford to have them lose their faith and hope that they'll be given the break they deserve. That's why I'm for Easter Seals. They go right to work to help crippled children in our own community. So be watching for your Easter Seals. Remember every seal you use helps. Say Abner, you been down to the post office today? No, Lom, I ain't had time yet. Why? I heard some of the folks say they got their seals today. Bet we got ours too. Seals? My stars, Lom, what would we be doing with seals? We can't have no animals around here. Oh, Abner, I'm not saying anything about animals. I'm talking about Easter Seals. You know, those pretty colored stamp things they sell for the benefit of crippled children. Well, why didn't you say so? Sure, I know Easter Seals. Well, this year we better send in our donations right off. You know, we nearly slipped up last year when you misplaced the envelope. I'd feel terrible if we didn't help those kids. They're depending on us for doctors and hospitals and camps and a hundred other special services so that they can grow up to be happy and useful. The Society for Crippled Children say there are eight million crippled children in this country that need lots of care. All right, Lom, I know how important Easter Seals are. You don't have to tell me. But if it'll make you feel better, I'll go down to the post office right now and get ours. Say, how about investing in the future of eight million deserving young Americans, huh? This is Don McNeil, folks, telling you that eight million crippled children in our land are depending on us for happy, useful lives. Doggone, that's quite a responsibility when you think about it. You know, medical science has perfected many techniques to help the crippled, but it's up to us to see that all this knowledge and skill is made available to handicapped youngsters while they're still young and hopeful. How do we do it? Well, through Easter Seals. Every year about this time, your State Society for Crippled Children sends you Easter Seals to help crippled children in your community. Now, your 1950 Easter Seal gift will help to pay for the expert medical care and special training they need. And this is your annual opportunity to join in a wonderful nationwide program to bring new life and new hope to the handicapped. Why, who can say no to the appeal of a crippled child? Hello there. This is Art Linkletter speaking. Every week I prove that people are funny. But right now I want to tell you that people are swell. They're quick to respond to an appeal from those in distress. And I'm telling you right now that eight million crippled children across our land are sending out SOS signals for your help. These signals are Easter Seals, small bright colored seals which provide the expert medical care and special education and training that crippled children need if they're ever to lead active and satisfying lives. Your Easter Seal contributions help build clinics and special schools and summer camps. They finance medical research which benefits handicapped youngsters. The Society for Crippled Children in your State will be sending you your 1950 Easter Seals very soon. Be watching for them. Remember that crippled children are looking to you for future health and happiness. Be generous. Every Easter Seal you use helps a crippled child in your community. Hello out there. This is Jack Birch, folks. I've got a short story about a little girl named Sally. Now, Sally is one of eight million crippled children in our land today. She's had several bone operations and requires the best of medical care. Now, through the efforts of the State Society for Crippled Children, Sally receives the expert and understanding care that she needs. The Society sends her a home teacher so she can keep up with her school classes. And although she is still crippled, she can look forward with hope to a better life because she has such good friends and good advisors. Now, you can help bring hope a new life to crippled children like Sally at Easter time by contributing to the 1950 Easter Seal campaign in your state. Do help, won't you? Susan is a little crippled girl who wants a chance to run and play. This is Celeste Holm to tell you about Susan, who lives in your own community. She's a victim of cerebral palsy, an affliction that has disturbed her muscular control, her walking and even her arm movements and her speech. She needs the most special care and training if she's ever to achieve a useful life. Today there is hope for Susan because in your state and the other 47 states, there are societies for crippled children which are dedicated to helping handicapped youngsters. These children must have expert medical care and special education in order to grow up to be happy citizens. Of course, services for crippled children cost money. And that's why, once a year at Easter time, your state society for crippled children sends you small, bright Easter seals which finance this wonderful work. When you contribute during the 1950 Easter Seal campaign, you are giving new life and new hope to a crippled child in your community. If you've got a minute to spare, folks, I'd like to tell you a 60-second story about Johnny. This is Gene Autry speaking. Johnny is a special friend of mine. He's eight years old and just about the most enthusiastic cowboy fan I know. He wears his red sombrero and plaid neckerchief and gets a bang out of watching the kids whoop it up in a fast game of cowboys and Indians. Johnny can't play a game himself because he's crippled. He can't run or even walk under his own power. But he hopes to overcome his handicap someday. Johnny is just one of eight million crippled children in our land today who must have expert medical care and special training and education if they are to grow up to be happy. Active citizens. These special services for the handicapped cost money. That's why once a year at Easter time, your State Society for Crippled Children sends you Easter Seals which support hospitals, clinics, special schools, health camps and workshops where these children can be helped so they won't have to watch for the sidelines all of their lives. Youngsters like Johnny need and deserve our help. So let's be generous during the 1950 Easter Seal campaign. This is Peggy Lee. Once every year at Easter time, the Society for Crippled Children in your state sends you Easter Seals. These are the little seals which finance special services for handicapped youngsters in your community, giving them new hope and new life. In our land today, there are eight million crippled children who have suffered misfortune either by accident or disease. They are wishing and praying for a chance to lead active, useful lives without crutches and wheelchairs. We can help them achieve new goals in health and happiness by contributing as generously as we can to the 1950 Easter Seal campaign. Easter Seal dollars provide skilled medical care and special education, summer camps and sheltered workshops that crippled children need to prepare them for future independence. Life can be brighter for these youngsters if we all share in this important work. Every Easter Seal you use helps. You know the saying, everyone wants to get into the act. This is Guy Lombardo giving you an advanced tip on joining a wonderful act. Tryouts begin any day now and everyone has an opportunity to be a star. The performance takes place at Easter time on behalf of eight million crippled children. Now this act I'm urging you to get into is an act of kindness, of generosity and sympathy to handicapped youngsters who are depending on you for the support, the medical care and special training and education they must have if they're to lead useful, happy lives. If you don't join the act, many of them will finish out their lives in the dark, futile shadows of your communities. Your State Society for Crippled Children will be sending you your 1950 Easter Seal soon. Easter Seals finance special services these unfortunate youngsters need. I know you'll want to get into this act, so give as generously as you can during the Easter Seal campaign. Small Henry Jones is six years old and he wishes so hard that he could walk without crutches. This is Cornell Wild speaking for Henry and other crippled children who need your help so they can grow up to be useful, happy citizens. Here's how you can lend a hand. The Society for Crippled Children in your state will be sending you your 1950 Easter Seals before long. These little seals do big work for crippled youngsters in your community and across the country. Your Easter Seal gift will help to pay for the expert medical care and special training these handicapped children need. This is your chance to join in a wonderful nationwide program to serve the unmet needs of eight million crippled children who are praying for new life and new hope. In the true spirit of Easter give as generously as you can during the Easter Seal campaign. Help Henry throw away those crutches. This is Arthur Godfrey, folks. I got a little message for you. Won't take but a minute. One of these days soon you'll be receiving some Easter Seals in the mail. There's a picture of a little fella on these seals and he's throwing away his crutches. And the printing says help crippled children. Now I know you all want to help crippled children so there probably isn't need for me to say very much. The only thing is that if you like Godfrey you've got to be reminded every once in a while to do the things you should do and the things that you really want to do. Don't let this Easter slip by without contributing to the 1950 Easter Seal campaign to help crippled kids. Kids in wheelchairs, on crutches, or lying real quiet in hospital beds. Give them the best doctors, the finest therapy, the special education and the health camps, all the extra things they need to start a new life without three strikes against them. When the Society for Crippled Children in your state sends you these Easter Seals, give as generously as you can, will you? This is Edward R. Murrell reporting that there are eight million crippled children across our land who can benefit from your Easter Seal contributions this year. These youngsters need the most expert and understanding care to help them overcome their handicaps, suffered either by accident or disease. While they are young, there is an excellent chance for them to improve their conditions if they have the right medical treatment and therapy now. In recent years, medical science has perfected remarkable techniques to aid the crippled, but this skill and knowledge must be made available to those who need it most. Easter Seal Dollars established treatment and training centers provide special education, sheltered workshops and health camps, the special service crippled children need. When the 1950 Easter Seal campaign gets underway, it's big news for crippled children who are hoping for a new way of life without crutches and wheelchairs. The Society for Crippled Children in your state will be sending you your Easter Seal soon. Your contributions help crippled children in your own community. Hello, folks. This is Sammy Kay. Can you hear the voices of eight million children? You can't? Well, you can hear me. And it's the absolute truth that eight million crippled children are speaking directly to you before Easter this year, telling you how you can help them get the expert medical care and special education and training they must have to put them on their feet like other youngsters. You can't hear them now because they don't have a microphone. But they do have Easter Seals. So I've made a deal with crippled children. They've got Easter Seals. I've got a microphone. And I promised them I'd tell you about these little seals which finance the special services handicapped youngsters need. Before long, your State Society for Crippled Children will be sending you your 1950 Easter Seals. So be looking for them. Your contributions help to put crippled children in your own community on the road to recovery. Nice people, this is Horace Haidt. As you know, I believe very strongly in giving young people a chance to get ahead in life. In fact, that's been my job for several years with my Youth Opportunity Program. So I'd like to speak to you about 8 million crippled children who are praying and hoping this Easter time for their opportunity. Victims of crippling disease or handicaps. Many of them might have to spend the rest of their years in the discouraging shadows of stronger, healthier people unless, unless we open our hearts now and provide the experts medical care and special education they need to prepare them for more satisfying, useful lives. You and I can help build a miracle working program of service for the handicapped by contributing to the 1950 Easter Seal campaign. The Society for Crippled Children in your state will soon be sending you your Easter Seals. When they arrive, remember that they can do big things for unfortunate youngsters right in your own community. Thank you.
