We're speaking to you by transcription from beautiful Robert Allerton Park, the University of Illinois' famed study center at Monticello, Illinois. Here in the stately Georgian mansion of the 6,000 acre estate, leaders in the field of educational broadcasting met early this summer for the first international seminar on educational broadcasting. In attendance were representatives from six foreign nations, directors of 21 educational radio stations, and leaders in the educational and radio fields. They met to discuss the future on educational broadcasting. One of the more important people at the conference was Mr. John Marshall of New York City. Mr. Marshall is associate director for the humanities of the Rockefeller Foundation. Mr. Marshall, I understand that the conference is sponsored by the foundation. Well, not exactly sponsored. The University of Illinois asked the foundation if it could make available the money needed to finance the conference beyond the facilities that the University of Illinois could provide. That's all the foundation did. Well then, just why is the foundation interested in this particular conference? Mr. Marshall, because a lot of people want to know if the non-commercial stations, non-commercial radio stations of the country, that is principally the University stations, have some special functions, special opportunities, and special obligations. And we agreed with the University of Illinois that the best way to find that out was to ask the people who direct those stations. And here they all are talking about it. And for that reason they brought together these heads of the educational broadcasting stations from throughout the nation and from foreign countries. The conference hasn't been underway too long, but I wonder whether you could tell us whether you've been able to determine whether any particular developments are going to take place that you might predict the outcome. Well, I think it's far too soon yet. I've just been here a little more than 24 hours. We've watched the conference start. And I think that the real work will get underway when the people who are visiting the conference, like myself, get out and leave the boys really to do the job they have before them. Well, will you be here long, Mr. Marshall? No, unfortunately I have to leave tonight. But I certainly shall look ahead, as a good many people will, to the report that I suppose the real participants in the conference will prepare. Well, Mr. Marshall, is this the first thing of this sort that the Foundation has done on radio? No, the Foundation has been interested in radio since about 1933. A number of the people at this conference, for example, had fellowships from the Foundation in the 1930s to study what they could gain from watching broadcasting other than in their own stations. Some of them studied at the headquarters of the networks, some of them studied abroad. And I see here at the conference many people that I knew in the 1930s. Well, between 1930s and now, what other studies has the Foundation made in radio? The Foundation helped the work likewise of one man here who seems to have played a rather important role in the conference, Dr. Paul Lazzesfeld, now of Columbia University, who originally made the studies of radio listening, which I think did show all of us more than we knew before about why people listen to the radio, what they listen to, and how they are affected by what they hear. Well, the principal thing from the Foundation's standpoint then is to achieve a more effective use of radio for the sake of the people? Yes, that's precisely it. To see in what ways radio can be used, as one of our people said, to widen the area of public appreciation, to make radio really more useful as a part of our cultural life. And beyond this conference, are you able to tell anything that the Foundation has planned in the radio field? No, because the Foundation has no plans. The Foundation tries to help people who have ideas, tries to evaluate those ideas, but it has no plans of its own. It's there to help. Another of the more important guests at the conference was Richard B. Hull, President of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters and Director of Station WOI, Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa. Mr. Hull, perhaps it would be best first to explain what the National Association of Educational Broadcasters is. Well, the National Association of Educational Broadcasters is the largest and the oldest organization representing non-commercial stations in the United States. We have more than 100 members in the United States and Hawaii. The active members representing those colleges and universities and municipalities which own and operate their own AM, FM, or television broadcasting stations. The associate members are those colleges and universities which produce educational programs for other outlets where they don't operate their own. Well, I imagine a number of our listeners are not too well acquainted with the outlook for educational stations, how many there are throughout the nation, and the general picture on educational broadcasting. How many stations are there? Well, there are in the neighborhood of 100 plus now, and more on the way. In the 1930s during the Depression and during the earlier days of radio, their total of educational stations fell to an all-time low of something like 34 or 35. Since that time, and particularly marked in the last three or four years, there's been a veritable renaissance of these stations, so that in our own membership now, we have a total of 70 AM and FM stations, applications and construction permits for more stations, particularly the new FM educational stations, which make the total more than 100, and the prospects are for more. The general purpose and intent of these stations is to provide a kind of triple service, though it may vary from region to region, and from place to place in the country. We generally have three objectives in mind. First, we try to serve a special audience. In other words, the audience that the bulk of American radio does not serve. Secondly, we train people, we educate them for professional positions in commercial radio. They go out from the universities to participate in other stations and networks. And thirdly, part of our endeavor is directed toward creating new program formats, toward research and audience. So we train, we research, and more importantly, perhaps we provide a special broadcast service, providing programs which are unique and which are not otherwise brought to the American public, educational, non-commercial radio. Well, you mentioned there research on audiences. Could you develop that a little further? Explain some of the steps that are taken to try to determine the extent, the quality of audiences? Well, one example, for instance, would be the 12-state survey now going on under the sponsorship of the United States Department of Agriculture, in which 12 states in the north central regions, including stations in Minnesota, Illinois, Iowa, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, are providing a careful check through this survey medium, programs which are directed toward informing the public on market conditions. The effort is to find out precisely what happens from the time, for instance, a market product leaves a farm or leaves an industrial center, the time that information is released to the general public, what the public does about it, how many listen, and so on. In other words, to check a complete process. That's a two-year survey, and based on an area sample over the several states I've mentioned. I see. And then one other thing, I believe this afternoon the announcement was made that your school will have the first television installation for an educational institution. Yes, we feel very happy about that. Almost three years ago, our president at Iowa State College appointed a committee to consider the implications of some of the new projects. of some of the new communications media, FM and television. As a result of that committee study, applications were requested, submitted to, and construction permits granted from the Federal Communications Commission, which permitted us to construct an FM and a television station. Last week, we received final approval from our own State Board of Education and sufficient financing to allow us to carry forward and complete the construction of the first educational television station in the United States, which will operate on Channel 4 with a power of 5000 watts. Well, now that, uh, that is a regular television station broadcasting in the same manner that the commercial stations will. In other words, it's not just an experimental setup. That's perfectly correct. In the regular or standard television station, the Federal Communications Commission licenses a facility which may be used any way the applicant or licensee chooses to use it. In our case, uh, policy determination of the college has indicated that we will not operate this commercially. But in every respect, it's like every other television, equally powerful, and reaching the same audience as both those in New York, Los Angeles, Detroit, and so on. Do you have any idea when the station will get on the air? It's difficult to estimate precisely when, where that will depend to a large extent on the delivery of equipment. We hope sometime within the next six months, we shall be able to provide regular service to Iowa, to Iowa public and to Iowa schools. Well, I imagine television has quite a tremendous place in educational broadcasting. Do you have any plans formulated as to how this medium will be used? We thought of it in two ways. In the first place, uh, Iowa State College maintains what is known as an agricultural extension service as do many land-grant colleges, wherein specialists from the college in various fields such as entomology, animal husbandry, nutrition, and so on go around the state, uh, assisting and advising rural groups and city groups on these various problems. With the advent of television, we expect to take this same specialist and to duplicate his impact, say from, uh, on a basis of a thousand times. At the moment, he may drive in a car and speak to a group of twenty or thirty people. We expect within two or three years, we shall have at least twenty or thirty thousand television sets in the area. And without affecting his job in any way except to devote part of his time to this effort, he will be able to increase his contacts on the order from, say, twenty to twenty thousand. The other aspect of it is the secondary school aspect. In Iowa, which is a rural state, there are hundreds of scattered rural schools, some of them with pupils totaling as few as fifty or a hundred. And with television emanating from a central agency, we feel that we should be able to bring them outstanding visitors, master teachers, films, slides, teaching aids of all kinds, in short, a contact with the outer world which they otherwise would not experience and would not certainly be able to afford. We consider it a new dynamic, a three-dimensional instead of a one or two-dimensional form of education. It certainly sounds like a marvelous program and I wish you every success in the world with it. New York City was represented at the conference by Seymour Siegel, Director of Radio Communications for the City of New York. Mr. Siegel, why would the City of New York have a Director of Radio Communications? Well, the city operates some five or six hundred radio stations for its police department, its fire department and various other services. But the stations that are probably best known to the public are WNYC and WNYC-FM, which are regular broadcast stations. And as a matter of fact, they're the only municipally operated non-commercial broadcast stations in the United States. Then those stations are actually owned and operated by the City of New York. That's true. They're owned and operated by eight million inhabitants of the city, all of whom take a very, very deep and sometimes a very vociferous interest in our programs. They feel that they have a direct part to play in the station. Very much so. They listen avidly. We don't have any particular mass audience, but we do have a fairly large audience. The city operates the station as an adjunct to the police department, the fire department and various other city departments for the instruction, enlightenment, recreation and welfare of all the inhabitants of the city. We do a great deal of good music programming. We provide a great deal of information on the public health. We do a great deal for the consumer, bringing market news and consumer information. We do a great deal in the way of broadcasting sessions of the United Nations. Since New York City became the world capital, we've had our microphones at virtually every meeting of the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Atomic Energy Commission and other organs of the United Nations. And we have devoted many, many hours. Last year, I believe there were over 1,500 hours of the deliberations of this body of men seeking to guarantee the peace of the world brought to the listeners in the New York area by WNYC. Would you say you were the only station that offers complete coverage of the United Nations? That's true. We're the only station that continues to bring the full sessions of the United Nations without any comment or without any interference on the part of an announcer or commentator. We let the people judge exactly what's going on by merely listening. Have you had any particular reaction to this policy? What is the reaction of the audience in general? The reaction of the audience is such that I fear that if we wanted to discontinue the service now, we could not. The people in New York, as I'm sure the people here in Illinois, are tremendously interested in what our representatives and what the representatives of the other nations of the world are going to do to guarantee the peace of the world. And they take a keen interest in the deliberations. We receive thousands and thousands of pieces of mail. If, for instance, a session of the United Nations is delayed a few minutes, our switchboard is jammed, literally hundreds of people will call to find out why we're not on the air with the United Nations. That's an amazing thing in itself. It seems unfortunate that the rest of the nation can't benefit from that sort of a service. I agree with you. We had hopes that some of the other stations throughout the country would be able to carry this information, but unfortunately, there are very few stations, especially commercial ones, that can devote as many hours over as long and continuous a period to such broadcasts. Well, Mr. Siegel, how long has the station been in operation? I'm glad you mentioned that because in two or three days we will be celebrating our silver anniversary. The station was inaugurated in 1924 and we've survived 25 years of all sorts of vicissitudes, including war and peace and storm and emergency. The station, of course, has been completely integrated into the life of the city. And as such, it's played a rather interesting and rather important role in translating the government of the city to the people in terms that they can understand. Well, then, earlier this morning, you were mentioning, as an example of the part the station plays in the life of the city, the campaign to have people vaccinated at the time of the smallpox scare. Could you develop that a little further? Well, you'll recall about a year or so ago, New York City had a tremendous smallpox scare. Somebody apparently traveling through the city had the disease and the Board of Health decided that eight million people ought to be inoculated so as to prevent the spread of smallpox. The station did something which was unusual. We made use of a singing commercial. We got some of the professional songwriters and some of the professional radio people to write a singing commercial, something to the effect, don't wait, gate, vaccinate. And within a period of two weeks, eight million people in New York were vaccinated. And I think that's a pretty good indication of the value of a concentrated radio campaign. I would say it's a tremendous testimonial to the effectiveness of your station. One other question of interest. With the radio station that's operated by a municipality, does that involve the unpleasant side of politics? No, I wouldn't say so. Strange as it seems, we've had two administrations in New York, one of Fiorello Ligardia and the other of William O'Dwyer, where politics have been completely absent insofar as the operation of the radio station is concerned. We're given a free hand and all of our employees are civil service. We don't hesitate one moment to permit people to go on the air and if need be attack the present administration policies. There have been no politics whatsoever in the general operation of WNYC. I wonder too what part the station plays in the operation of the school system in New York City. New York has WNYE, which is the Board of Education station. That's an FM station. And WNYC carries approximately 15 programs a week direct to the classrooms, especially to those schools that are not yet equipped with FM receivers. There's a very close connection between WNYC and WNYE, and we're extremely proud of the work that we're doing in the educational line. I want to point out to you that sometime this summer, WNYC will be devoting a half hour a day to homebound children. There are some 4,000 children in New York City who are not able to attend school, and to whose homes during the winter the Board of Education send teachers. Well, during the summer these youngsters are pretty much left to their own resources, and we've arranged to present a special program every day during the summer for their special benefit. So we cater to as little as 4,000 on occasion, and oft times we hope to the millions. Well, I'm certain that operating a municipal station brings all manner of problems, but what in your opinion is the most difficult problem that seems to arise in that sort of an operation? The main difficulty in our case, as in most all non-commercial stations, is our small budget. We do amazing things on the basis of the small resource at our command, but we develop a tremendous facility in being able to get things gratis free and for nothing. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Siegel, for your time and your consideration. The networks were represented at the conference too, and from the American Broadcasting Company was Miss Mary Ahern, Supervisor of Public Affairs Programs. Miss Ahern, what are your duties with the network? Well, Mr. Thompson, mainly they are to work in connection with documentary programs, which my chief, Robert Sordak, has initiated at ABC over the past three years. What do you mean by documentary programs? Well, there are long dramatizations that have come to be called documentaries, and so I think generally accepted under that title. They take issues of housing and public health and so forth. And present them in a dramatic form for the general public education. Yes, usually they're in dramatic form. Some of the earlier ones were done with wire recorders, but they have lately taken the dramatic forms exclusively. Well, what reaction have you had from the public toward these documentary programs that have been presented by the network? Well, the response is never very encouraging. It's one of the things that we would like to have from the listening audience when the first documentary went on the air, which was put on by CBS, The Eagles Brewed. There was an accurate count. And the letters, as Mr. Hudson can verify, were under 3,000. But to our documentaries, to my knowledge, we've been getting in the neighborhood of 100 or 200 letters, which is extremely low and not very significant. I imagine the audience, of course, is much larger than that. Unfortunately, you don't have box tops or something of that sort to have sent in to indicate the measure of listening. It would be a good idea if people would write to the networks telling them the things that they find worthwhile and the things that they appreciate. Yes, I think that's true. I mean, the public affairs departments have, of networks, have been particularly interested in this form of broadcasting, and it would be most helpful to know whether it has intrigued the general public as much as it has the broadcasters. Well, Miss Ahern, what part are you playing in the conference here? Well, it's mostly as a listener, and it has been extremely interesting to hear the problems of educational broadcasters. Our own setups in the commercial places are not too well off as far as budgets are concerned either, so that some of the problems are quite mutual. But on the other hand, we are able to go ahead and program some very elaborate shows, which on the whole the smaller educational stations are not in a position to do. In other words, then there's a very close tie between the networks and their documentary programs and the educational stations and the job they're trying to do. Yes, I think that's true. Much of the interest has been shown from the educational, much of the encouragement has come from the educational stations, and it would be interesting to have some of these documentaries worked out really in closer cooperation with the universities, and possibly some of the research being done by a specific university, and take the burden off of our research staff, which is really small, for instance, and then go ahead and assign a writer to draw upon those findings. You would say then that there is a very real place in commercial broadcasting for the documentary program? Oh, yes, I think there is. I think it has become established over the three years now that they've been, or two and a half years that they've been put on the air. Well, Miss Ahern, we'll let you get back to the general program. It started in there. But first, I'd like to thank you very much for your time and your consideration. Another of the networks represented at the conference was the Columbia Broadcasting System. Representing that network was Mr. Robert B. Hudson, Director of Education and Opinion Broadcasts. Mr. Hudson, that's quite a formidable title. What does it embrace? Well, I think it's pretty generally understood what education embraces. Perhaps it is in part a misnomer in connection with network broadcasting, because most of our work in the field of educational broadcasting is not quite as formal as schools and universities and colleges. And the general concept of formal education, which is held by most people. In the area of opinion, and that is, of course, related to educational broadcasting, opinion with us means pretty much the bringing to our microphones and to your receivers, wherever they may be, the opinions of citizens on a great many questions of public policy. Those range all the way from problems in the field of international affairs, like the North Atlantic Pact, or the Berlin Airlift, or the meeting of the foreign ministers in Paris, or problems in connection with the occupation of Japan on the international level, to domestic problems, the things that we're concerned about in regions and in the nation's capital. The Taft-Hartley Act, for example, labor legislation is being debated on our opinion programs quite extensively. Loyalty oaths are another thing. Even into the area of power, public power, like a proposed Missouri Valley Authority or Columbia Valley Authority. Those things are talked about by citizens. And through the means of our opinion programs, we're able to bring to you, as a listener, a great range of viewpoint. And viewpoints of a great many citizens, of course, is a basic ingredient of a democratic society. Well then, Mr. Hudson, what is the educational program that's carried on by Columbia? Well, Columbia, I suspect, is best known for its American School of the Air, which was on for a great many years. It is not being carried on the network just now, because there are a lot of university stations and stations owned by boards of education, which are coming in and picking up the classroom broadcasting and doing a more effective job of it than we can ever expect to do on a national service basis. In place of that classroom emphasis, we're moving very strongly into the field of general audience educational programs. Our view being simply this, that most of the people in the United States, certainly most of the adult population, has long since left the immediate influence of schoolrooms and university campuses, and are still concerned with the whole world of ideas. And radio, perhaps, offers the best possible means of bringing to them an experience in the field of ideas. So we're not concerned with giving courses to people. We're concerned with bringing important educational ideas in the field of political science and the natural sciences and history and the world we live in, to people who probably will never darken the door of a schoolroom again. Well then, the fact that you're here at this conference indicates that there's quite a close relationship between the educational broadcasting station and the network, would it not? I shouldn't say there's an especially close relationship, except that the receiver, which you may have in your home. That receiver gives you the privilege, gives you the choice of programs. You can get an entertainment program from a commercial station. You can get a lot of entertainment and variety and top talent programs from network services. But you also have the option of getting some pretty solid content stuff through your educational station. So I should say that the two are really not in competition. They are existing side by side, giving you that greater choice, which is more or less the birthright of the American listener. Well, Mr. Hudson, thank you very much. And I hope that we can talk to you a little later, carry this discussion further. You have been listening to interviews with some of the outstanding persons attending the recent international seminar on educational broadcasting at Robert Allerton Park, the University of Illinois Study Center. Your announcer was Willard Thompson. This was a transcribed feature of the University of Illinois Radio Service. We are speaking to you by transcription from beautiful Robert Allerton Park, the University of Illinois' famed study center at Monticello, Illinois. Here in the stately Georgian mansion of the 6,000 acre estate, leaders in the field of educational broadcasting met early this summer for the first international seminar on educational broadcasting. In attendance were representatives of 21 educational radio stations, leaders in education and radio fields, and representatives from six foreign nations. They met to discuss the future of educational broadcasting. As we explained earlier, six foreign nations were represented at the conference. And representing Great Britain was Tom Baird, director of British Information Services in the Middle West. Mr. Baird, why did you come to this particular conference? Well, I'm fundamentally interested in all the different ways of speaking to people. Professionally, I'm a civil servant, and one of my jobs on behalf of my government when at home is to explain government policy. When I'm abroad, as I am now in the United States, it is still my job to explain Great Britain's position and the government's policy. I'm therefore very interested in all the media of communication, such as films, and in particular radio. And this conference then is offering you probably some new insight on the use of radio as it's used in the educational stations in the United States. I imagine you'll be able to apply quite a bit of it in your own work. Well, I'm very interested to learn of the problems of my friends and colleagues here, because our radio is set up in a rather different fashion. We've faced up to some of these problems. We have offered ourselves and adopted solutions, some of which have worked and some of which in the normal process have just not worked. It's very interesting for me to keep in mind the things which don't work very well in our country, and to see the same problems arising, and to see American solutions and attempted solutions. And speaking of the problems in your own country, could you develop that a little further? What are some of those problems? Well, I think, and I like to remind myself and remind my American friends, that England is a very small country. I think I'm right in saying that if we had about another 30 square miles, we would be the size of Illinois. Therefore, many of the problems which arrive on the doorstep of American radio people and radio educators just do not arrive in Britain. We think we have regions. We've got the Scotch and the English. We've got two nations. We think we've got regional problems. But I'm struck more and more with the terrific problems which the size of America brings to the educator and to the radio person. I might explain right here, too, that Mr. Baird is a resident of Scotland rather than England. Not that that should make too much differentiation there. In England, how do you set up your radio broadcasting? Well, I think, remembering again this matter of size, we have got, through the BBC, virtually national coverage. We also have, we do not have competitive radio, shall I put it that way. Some people think we've got state-owned radio. That's very far from the truth. What has happened is that the British Parliament decided that radio ought not to be left to the whim of individuals for development, but should be developed in the national interest. This policy of operating this very magic medium was entrusted to a public corporation. So long as that corporation carries out a policy in the best national interest, there is no interference from the government, and no change in the parliamentary laws governing broadcasting. Having said that, I think we've accepted, what I think is a fact, but it's certainly a workable theory, that while this is a mass medium, people, taken all in all as a nation, are undoubtedly a mass of people. But they're also a mass of individuals, individuals broken down into different types with different interests. I'm a very enthusiastic amateur photographer, and also a very enthusiastic, though not very good, gardener. I, I, therefore, am one of the masses, but I'm also a photographer, and I'm also a gardener. The BBC, I think, accepts the premise that these personal interests of people should be served by the radio. The BBC will serve the broad interests of all people, but they will also serve the special interests. Therefore, our programmes are broken up through the day to look after these exceptional interests. They're broken up two other, one other way, I should say. I'm a very different person on Saturday night from the person I am on Sunday morning. These are only two of my moods, but these are two very clear-cut ones. Most people have moods in which they're prepared to be interested in something, and at other times when they're not prepared to be interested. I like to go to the movies on Saturday night, but while I have been a documentary producer, I wouldn't like to be shown documentary films on Saturday night. I'm just not in the mood for it. The BBC, therefore, divides its work into three main types of programme. If you could imagine your dial as being a spectrum with only three colours, and you can turn to one or other of these colours, not because it's a station, or a company broadcasting, or another company broadcasting, but turn to that point on the dial, because that represents one of the basic moods. Now, on our dial, as I say, we have got these three moods represented by three programmes. The home programme represents, I think in broad terms, a great experiment in public education. On that programme you will find the broadcast to schools directed straight to the classrooms, running for about four hours at the best times for the school during the day. There you will find the home-making programmes. There you will find the children's hour. You will find your talks for the gardeners and the photographers. There you will find the criticism, the film critic, the music critic, the arts critic, and the theatre critic. So, in that first programme you've got the general public education programme, with a fair amount of serious music. In the second programme, which we call the light programme, you have the lighter and more entertaining items provided by British radio. This programme grew out of the programme which we ran during the war, and called the forces programme. Soldiers in the army weren't particularly interested with having talks on gardening, or photography, or stamp collecting. Most of them had had a pretty tough day, and radio was essentially relaxation. And so, there we found variety, or would you call it vaudeville, the kind of thing that Jack Hope, that Bob Hope and Jack Benny do, the light music, the dance music, the popular vocal music, you would find in this programme. And that light programme has developed into our essential entertainment programme. The third programme, and because they can't think of another name for it, the third programme is simply called the third programme. And that's an extremely high-brow programme, and pays no attention whatsoever to the clock. If a symphony takes 55 minutes to play, well, you play it for 55 minutes. If a man wants to talk on something very important for an hour and a half, he talks for an hour and a half, and when he's finished, he stops, and the announcer says that that's the end, and now the next thing's coming along. Professor Trevelyan, one of our very distinguished historians, gave a lecture the other night on British history, a very distinguished lecture, and he, we reckon, had an audience of about, well, somewhere in excess of 100,000 people. He spoke for an hour and 20 minutes. Now, that kind of audience doesn't deserve any kind of Hooper rating, but it's certainly the biggest audience that Professor Trevelyan has ever had in the history of his life, and certainly rather bigger than the final of the World Series, which is not bad going. An even more extreme example is a performance of Back to Methuselah, Mr George Bernard Shaw's monumental play, which takes three nights to perform. And so it was put on, uncut, and ran from about 7 o'clock at night till midnight, on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Some people, I'm afraid, think that's carrying things too far. But as it is an alternative, and it does represent an interest of a very large section of our population, of our well-educated part of the population, the BBC, I think, are perhaps right in saying that that's a legitimate audience, which ought to be served by a public service radio. That system sounds quite ideal. In other words, you know exactly where you want to get, what programs you want, and when you want them. Yes, I think it's not perfect. Nothing in democracy is perfect, and I think perhaps that's the essential of democracy, that we shouldn't be perfect. Once we're perfect, we're static. And only an essentially undemocratic nation can say that we've achieved everything, and we're good, and we're perfect. I think this theory of broadcasting reflects our theory of democracy. I suppose democracy is only the good life, because it gives you the opportunity of discovering the good life. We never quite achieve it. The only people who thought they'd achieved it lost the war. And I think our broadcasting reflects the fact that we believe that democracy is a continual process of discovery, finding new and better ways of doing things, moving towards perfection, but of course never achieving it. Then what would you say was the basic premise of radio in Great Britain? I think the basic premise, which before the war was academic, was that the entertainment and education of the people should be implemented for all people, but not necessarily all at the same time. I think that's indicated and reflected by the fact that I don't think people in Britain listen nearly so much to the radio as people here do. I think they're more selective, and they go and chase around for the programmes. There's much less of the endless playing. I think the BBC has probably created that by this style of broadcasting, or maybe it reflected an English tray. Ah. Well then, how long will you be here? Unfortunately, I've got to leave this lovely place in about five minutes, and return to Chicago for a couple of days to do some work. Ah, but I'll be back here on Saturday, and I'll spend the rest of the conference here, and I'm looking forward to it very much. Well, we'd best not hold you up right now then, but hope to see you when you get back, and thank you very much. Another of the guests from a foreign country was Miss Victoria Abelardo of Manila in the Philippine Islands. Miss Abelardo is chairman of the Language Arts Committee for the Philippine Islands. Uh, Miss Abelardo, how do you happen to be in the United States? I won a UNESCO scholarship in cinema and radio education. And so you came here to study. Where are you studying? I'm studying at Teacher's Scholars at Columbia University, specializing in audiovisual education. Is this your first visit to the United States? This is my second visit because ten years ago, I won a government scholarship in English, and went to Naxxcala in Galesburg, Illinois. Well then, you're right back in your former surroundings. Exactly, that's why I feel at home when I find myself here in Urbana. And now, Miss Abelardo, you're studying in Columbia University, and just what course are you studying? What are your plans? I have been taking courses in audiovisual education in Teacher's College, with the hope of promoting an audiovisual program in the Philippine public school system, through the Department of Education, where I work at present. Well now, at the present time in the Philippine Islands, do you have such a program in operation? We don't have any program. Before the war, we had some school participation in radio broadcasts, in the form of singing, and storytelling, and playing instruments. But the war interrupted all our plans, and I suppose we have to begin all over again. What is the radio situation in the Philippine Islands? What is the set-up, the organization of the radio stations? We have two set-ups. One government-controlled radio, and several commercial radios. The government-controlled radio is what you might call the educational radio in the United States. And in connection with that, what are the major problems with which the educational system is faced in using radio stations for their purposes? Well, we really would like to learn the curriculum and vitalize instruction through the use of this new tool of education, radio. But at present, we like the facilities. In the first place, we don't have electricity all over the island, so if we do, we have them only at night. And we don't have radio sets. And if they're available, they're too expensive, and not within the means of the schools for the ordinary citizens. We lack also technical men to work in the radio stations. And your hope is that you may go back to the Philippine Islands and do your part in making all this possible. You said that you lacked radio sets. Does that mean that the average resident of the Philippine Islands does not have a radio set? Well, unless they make one of their own, they can't afford to buy one manufactured in the United States. So it's still, uh, radio sets are still very expensive. Well, we hope that someday when we have electricity installed, well, uh, the manufacturers can make it possible to lower the price of the radio sets so that the schools can buy them wholesale and more people can benefit from them. And, uh, Ms. Abelardo, here at the conference and during your course of study in the United States, have you, uh, formed any general opinions as to the effectiveness of radio in, uh, helping with education? Well, I have proved, uh, through my courses and through my visits that radio can supplement classroom instruction, a vitalized curriculum, and enrich the curriculum offerings of the schools. Ms. Abelardo, I certainly hope that you're able to accomplish your mission, and that when you get back to the Philippine Islands, some way that equipment can become available. I want to thank you very much for taking the time to visit with us. Well, I think the pleasure is mine, and I'll bring plenty of inspiration and hope to the people of the Philippine Islands. Thank you, too. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. From Korea came Mr. Kyung-ho Park, who is a member of the planning board of the Korean Broadcasting System. Uh, Mr. Park, how do you happen to be in the United States? Uh, I was, uh, selected by the Korean government to study the radio broadcasting technique in this country. And, uh, my training in this country has been jointly sponsored by Rockefeller Foundation and Columbia University. Now, could you give us a picture of the broadcasting system, the way it's organized in Korea? Uh, until last year when, uh, our government was set up, the broadcast, uh, broadcasting system in our country was, uh, a sort of private corporation. But, uh, as soon as, uh, our government was established, uh, the government took it up under the Department of, uh, Information. Now it is entirely owned and controlled by the government. Well, how is that system financed then? Uh, well, in, in our country, I think, uh, not only in our country, but, uh, many of the Oriental countries, the radio stations are financed by what we call listeners' fee. Or perhaps listeners' tax, uh, whatever you choose to call it. Uh, every home or individual who owns a radio set, uh, is supposed to pay, uh, 101, which, uh, amounts approximately 10 cents in your money. Uh, uh, for you, probably 10 cents doesn't amount very much, but it means a great deal in our country. Well, now in Korea, do you have, uh, quite a few radio sets, or are they relatively limited to a certain higher class of people? Well, uh, it is not necessarily limited to the higher class, but, uh, we have about, uh, 200,000 radio sets well distributed in South Korea. And also, there are the same number of sets in North Korea, too. But, uh, uh, due to the short-off, uh, factories and the manufacturing, uh, power in our country, we also are suffering a great deal, the shortage of these sets. Uh, which, uh, mostly, uh, have to be imported from the foreign countries. Well, what is the greatest problem which your system of broadcasting faces? I think, uh, we are facing many handicaps and drawbacks, uh, drawbacks, but I think the greatest one is the shortage of electric power, which has, has been furnished, uh, entirely from the North Korea. Uh, so about two years ago, the, the Russians in North Korea, uh, totally cut it off. Uh, since then, uh, a few, uh, coal power plants in South Korea have been working very hard to support it, but, uh, eventually, it is not enough. And, of course, you have a country that's divided. There's North Korea and South Korea. Uh, do you face a problem there from the standpoint of a country divided? Oh, yes. I think, uh, perhaps it's worse than that. You know, uh, uh, for instance, between, uh, just the plain foreign countries, you know, you can exchange at least males and the other, the, uh, economical factors, but in our country, between these two sectors, it's entirely, uh, uh, separate. And the, uh, there is the most unpenetrable and unbreakable iron curtain ever set up. And, uh, do you have hopes for a united country in the near future? Uh, we hope so, and it has to be. Because without the unification of these, these two sectors, our country cannot survive. Because, uh, the industrial North, uh, and the agricultural South are absolutely inseparable. Well, from the standpoint of this conference, Mr. Park, uh, what is the most valuable information that you've gained? Uh, you mean the... The conference, uh, that's in session here now. Oh, I see. Over here, I think there are many points that I, uh, have learned, but I think the most important one is the, the, uh, democratic culture that your radio stations are, uh, conveying to the mass in this country. Well, Mr. Park, I hope that when you get back to Korea, all your problems will work out, and that, uh, the future of the Korean broadcasting system will be very bright indeed. And I do want to thank you for taking the time to talk with us. Well, I thank you for this, uh, opportunity to convey my, my message to your people. Another of the guests at the conference was, uh, Mr. Hiroshi Nino, who is chief of liaison section for Radio Tokyo. Now, Mr. Nino, uh, you're in the United States, but, uh, what is the purpose of your visit? My purpose was to come to America and see your broadcasting method, find out the differences of operation with your method and our method, and try to learn your method and take back to Japan and incorporate some of the systems that wherever we can. Well, I'm sure that the people would be very interested in knowing more about the radio broadcasting system in Japan, in Tokyo, and the way it's organized and the way it functions. The Radio Tokyo is a one radio system that exists in Japan. We try to reach the people by means of radio, this enormous medium, and a very accurate medium by which we can reach the people. To do this, we have 111 stations throughout the country, and Tokyo being the key station operating on 50 KW. And that, uh, most of the programs, do they originate in Tokyo? Yes, most of the programs originate in Tokyo. In fact, it, uh, has 80% of the entire network program, and the rest of the 20% comes from the regional stations feeding the network. Well, could you tell us a little about the type of programs that are broadcast, uh, generally? The types of broadcast we do generally is we put a lot of emphasis on the education and cultural programs. Uh, we have 59% of the entire program for educational and cultural programs, and, uh, 41% for pure entertainment. Now, this is probably a foolish question, but, uh, from my standpoint, it's quite interesting. Do you, uh, broadcast the Western-type music? Yes, uh, we do a lot of that Western-type music, because the younger generation like that, uh, American type of music, popular music. Oh, it could be any kind of popular music that you have here, uh, from, uh, semi-classic, uh, uh, down to hillbilly. Right down to the hillbilly. Right down to the hillbilly. They actually do, uh, enjoy the hillbilly music. Oh, yes, they do. They like it. Well, that's, uh, fine. And, uh, you spoke of entertainment. Now, is that, uh, holy music, or what else, uh, is there included in that? Uh, in the entertainment field, we use quite a large amount of live talent. We have, uh, quite a, uh, reservoir of, uh, live talent in Tokyo, in, uh, movies, theater, and, uh, in actual, uh, comedian stages, uh, comedians in stages. And, uh, all of them are so eager to appear on the radio, because it is a network, and the only one existing in Japan, by which, uh, they get a nationwide propaganda. So, it, it is a sort of a reciprocal, uh, exchange with the artists and our station. We get the benefit of the live artists' talents, and they like to come to our station to broadcast to get propaganda. In other words, that's the way they build their name throughout the country, and, uh, gain greater popularity. And, uh, I wonder, too, you have just the one system of broadcasting. Are the people of Japan able to get, uh, broadcasts from other countries? Yes, the people are able to get, uh, broadcasts from other countries, provided if they have a shortwave receiving set. And, uh, are there many of those in existence there? Yes, uh, the receiving sets are coming in large quantities now. Uh, and, uh, I should say the, uh, majority of the upper classes have combination of, uh, shortwave and mediumwave receiving sets. Uh, you have quite a radio industry of your own, that is, from the standpoint of building sets? Yes, we have quite a large, uh, uh, production capacity. Uh, I would like to give you an instance, uh, all through the war, and immediately after the war, the, uh, receiving sets was on the rather, uh, scarcity side. And so the government, uh, put on a, uh, official price that is limiting the sale of the receiving sets above a certain price. But, uh, the production has come up so fast that the, uh, manufacturers are undercutting the official price. That will give you an indication that the, uh, sets are more available now. And so the, uh, official price was thrown overboard. Well, that sounds like it's very, very fine for the people who have to buy the sets. Uh, from the standpoint of radio in the future, what are your plans for Radio Tokyo? For the future plans, we are now undergoing a five-year plan, uh, in our, uh, broadcasting system. And that is, since we place a great deal of emphasis on education, we are now trying to set up a third transmission, uh, which will devote itself entirely to education. Uh, at this stage, I might, uh, give you a little idea about our transmissions. We have the first transmission, which carries the network program throughout the country. And in order to satisfy a higher type of people, more educated type of people, that will require or desire a, uh, higher type of program, say, let's say, let's say in the field of music. They would, uh, prefer, uh, classic music, uh, more to the, uh, uh, uh, contemporary or jazz music. To these people, well, we, uh, make a separate program, uh, transmitting simultaneously with the network first program. Now we are thinking of, uh, setting up a third transmission, which devote itself entirely to education. Mr. Nino, that's all very, very interesting. I wish we had more time to discuss it. Unfortunately, we don't. But, uh, before we leave, thank you very much for taking the time to talk with us, and I hope that we can speak with you again sometime before too long. And thank you for giving me this opportunity. You have been listening to interviews with representatives of foreign countries who attended the recent international seminar on educational broadcasting held at Robert Alderton Park, the University of Illinois Study Center. Your announcer is Willard Thompson. This was a transcribed feature of the University of Illinois radio service. .