Radio's microphones are in the grand ballroom of the Hotel New Yorker at 34th Street and 8th Avenue, and the occasion being the 22nd annual convention of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers. It is an established principle that a profession to be truly recognized as a profession must be defined, and we do know that the problems and the engineering factors of a great city like New York require engineers of definite reputation, and in the course of the broadcast today, you'll hear many interesting facts on that subject. We now turn you over to the dais where Mr. Robert A. Sovick, second vice president of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers, is about to make the introductory remarks. Mr. Sovick. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to introduce as our toastmaster for this luncheon, Mr. Frederick Zumalem, who has been for three terms president of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers, has seven terms with the Richmond County chapter, and has done a great deal of work on various committees for both the state and for the national society. Mr. Frederick Zumalem. Chairman Sovick, Mr. Mayor, honored guests, fellow professional engineers and friends, and the honor of speaking to you in my present capacity as Commissioner of Public Works of the City of New York is to me intensified by a number of factors. First, I'm a lifelong resident of this city. It was in this city that the New York State Society of Professional Engineers was born, and professional engineer movement among engineers was conceived in this city. It is also 20 years this year since I joined this society, and I am proud of the part that I have played both as an officer and as a member of his official staff responsible for this city's largest country in gaining public recognition of professional engineers and their contributions to our American way of life. The most significant factor, however, is my personal admiration of our guest of honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer, who will be our honored speaker on this occasion. An admiration is gained through association with him as a member of his official staff responsible for this city's largest engineering and architectural agency, the Department of Public Works. Because of this official connection with the City of New York, I am able to acknowledge the particular interest with which the city greets the Symposium on Water and Beach Pollution, which is the principal feature of this convention. This series of lectures, which are being presented as a public service, will stress the public and civic interest in this problem, rather than its purely technical phases. It will indeed be difficult to select a topic more timely than the pollution of our inland and coastal waters. Public consciousness of this nationwide problem has awakened to a marked degree in recent years. The growing seriousness of pollution as an adverse factor in public health, and because of its effect in dispoiling one of our most important natural resources, has long concerned the public agencies wrestling with these problems on all levels, as well as specialists and professional engineers in the field of public health, sanitation, and conservation. To have the informed cooperation of even a part of our citizen body, as evidenced by an expanding public interest, is a trend toward a long-sought goal. It is most encouraging to see the growing number of citizens who are becoming aware that they can have clean beaches, that attractive shore drives, parks, and summer homes can front on waters which are aesthetically beautiful and which are safe from all forms, for all forms of recreational use, that shellfishing and clamming can be enjoyed in our coastal waters without fear of contamination by community wastes, and that our rivers, lakes, and ocean inlets can again support the fish life that made recreation and commercial fishing so enjoyable and profitable to our former generations. It is becoming more generally known that our people need not forgo the enjoyment of these resources because of uncontrolled pollution. However bad it may be in any selected area, pollution can be corrected by the cooperative effort of citizens and public officials and the willingness to unite on a practical means of meeting the cost. A sound and well-managed engineering program will do the rest. It is the purpose of this meeting to review the present status of waterway pollution from a number of basic viewpoints and to appraise the progress which has been made in providing and utilizing legislative and scientific facilities to control the disposal of community and industrial wastes to the point eventually of eliminating the menace of gross pollution. The subjects upon which the particularly able speakers will address you during this symposium will present a well-rounded picture of the pollution problem and its control. It has been a long, uphill fight to enlist public interest in this vital problem. The effort to do so has been accelerated in recent years through all available media. The press is doing an exceptionally fine job in this respect and we in New York City are conscious, are strongly conscious of the most helpful and telling work our local press has done and is continuing to do. The cooperation of the New York papers, their reporting staffs and editors, is deeply gratifying to the engineers and public officials coping with the problem of pollution control in the rivers and harbors of this metropolitan area. Public education is the most effective measure for generating interest and citizen support for the correction or prevention of pollution. The job is to get the story before the people in clear, understandable form. An informed public is the best possible guarantee of progress. Our own Department of Public Health under Commissioner Mustard is doing an excellent job of informing the public of the dangers to health in pollution at public bathing beaches. The State Department of Health is the statewide agency responsible for controlling pollution. This department has relied mainly on educational measures as the means of securing sewerage improvements and the abatement of existing pollution. Here in the metropolitan area, extending into three states, the Interstate Sanitation Commission makes wide use of public educational techniques in exercising its advisory control. Both of these agencies, however, have the power to issue enforceable orders when necessary in the public interest. One of the most effective statewide educational campaigns has been waged since its formation in 1946 by the Special Committee on Pollution Abatement of the Joint Legislative Committee on Interstate Cooperation known as the OSTOTAG Committee. The influence of this committee has been felt throughout the state and its work has resulted in the OSTOTAG bill now before the governor for signature. These comments I have presented merely as a keynote or theme of this two-day symposium. I have the honor of presenting the distinguished speaker who will present the opening address of welcome. Next to the president, the mayor of the nation's greatest city has what is conceded to be the largest and most exacting administrative job in the world. When he returned from important army service, took off the stars of a brigadier general and settled down at the mayor's desk in 1946, he found out almost at once the magnitude and diversity of the problems to be faced. His approach to the solution of those problems was analytical, so much so that one would believe his educational background was engineering instead of law. When he called me to his office two days before my appointment and I met him at that time for the first time, I was deeply impressed with his sincerity of purpose and his intimate knowledge of the work of the department that he was requesting me to head. After a year and a half of service under his leadership, I found my first impression to have been correct. His three and a half years in office, in my opinion, will go down in history as having accomplished under the most trying circumstances a record unequaled by any of his predecessors since the consolidation of the five boroughs into the great city of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my proud privilege to present his honor of the mayor, William O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Zimulian, Perry, sorry, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of welcoming you from the Society of Engineering of the State of New York to this convention. I have been asked by one of the guests of the Bayes what I know about engineering. Well, I gave him an answer that might be a good one to give to you. I was playing a game of golf, something I don't do very well, in El Centro, California on the 26th of the summer a year ago. And when I came in allowing for three hours difference, I learned for the first time that 28 inches of snow had fallen on a city and that the temperature was dropping and that that snow was quickly becoming ice. That meant that in a city of eight million people that the fire apparatus couldn't get in, that food and fuel couldn't be delivered, that garbage couldn't be removed. Another word, that you had a city actually crippled because of the impossibility of circus transportation. I took a plane back and got here at seven o'clock at night the next night and went straight to City Hall. There I found that the condition which was the most unusual in the recorded history of the city was one for which our Department of Sanitation was not equipped to handle. Our equipment skimmed over the 28 inches. The equipment didn't have the purchase to drive through. We were just on that evening the 27th of December looking at a city that was facing every known health fire hazard including starvation. Immediately it came to my mind that since the Department of Sanitation was not able or equipped to handle that kind of an emergency that there was just one group within the city in city employment that there was for him. Certainly if Sanitation couldn't do it there was no other one single department that could do it. I sent immediately for Fred Zemulian and I placed the thing before him and said this is an engineering job. This ceases to be the kind of a job that you can expect the routine handling of sanitation to deal with. And under his great leadership we gathered together all of the engineers who were employed in the various city departments and we asked them to work around the clock. We took the map of the city we laid it out we gave priority to certain highways so that we could open up transportation we set ourselves to the job of getting equipment that could plow through the only thing that could do that were caterpillar bulldozers. We had less than 50 available. We ended up with 157. We also had a problem with cars that were parked and left there as the snow fell. We couldn't get through the streets we had to get something like 86 of these powerful trucks and haul them into schoolyards and parks to get them out of the way. And it did take us 11 days. At the end of the 11th day we had opened a highway through the streets of the city which in distance was 5,200 miles, a highway as long as from here to San Francisco by air and back at a cost of 8.5 million dollars. Immediately following that I asked Fred Zemuren and his board to go to work and make preparations then for another winter when this might happen again so that we'd have the proper equipment. And incidentally equipment that could be used for multiple services. equipment that could be so built that we could use it for snow removal in the winter, we could use it for flushing or for sweeping in the summer, interchangeable parks. As a result of which, together with a reorganization of the Department of Sanitation, we set up a blueprint of organizations where the head of operations was a trained experienced engineer. We also set up in that department a department of engineering planning, made up of 20 engineers where we got another experienced engineer. We also had a thorough analysis made of that department in other fields. We found, for example, that something had to be done with that frightfully disgusting method of handling garbage or burying it. You simply had to get around to incineration. We developed an incineration program, a three-year program, about $44 million, which will be adequate for the destruction of garbage by fire as long as this city remains about this size. there, again, the engineer had to be the head of operations. The question of what to do in the meantime, when we still had to bury some of it, there again, the engineer came in. The question of towing, the engineer came in. The question of handling 10,000 men in actual operation of trucks. The question of handling those trucks and sweeping, garbage removal, all these questions boil themselves down to an engineering, a potter engineering job that we have. We took $7 million from the capital budget and we allocated three and a half of this equipment. And by December of this year, we had 60% of that actually delivered. Now let me show you what this engineering handling accomplished for our city. On the Sunday before Christmas, we had a fall of snow of 19 and a half inches. It fell on a Sunday. It was five days before Christmas. All our business places felt that they were ruined on Sunday night. But with this engineering planning in operation, with this equipment, with this orderly way of taking care of it, do you know what happened? On Monday morning, following that snowfall, every single bus in this city was running. The business people didn't lose a dollar. We had the city open for business as usual at Manichok and on the morning. That is my tribute to engineering. one of the things that we found in 1946 was that scattered throughout our city are truly great men of your profession. One of them over here, the chief engineer of the board of equipment. To him, my dear, John Roger. To Mr. Phil Farley, over in Brooklyn. To him, my dear. And I won't go down the line because the list is entirely too long, but this we have found, that the most underpaid of all of our city helped with our engineering forces. I have, at the present moment, a study underway so that we can look again between now and the next few months companies, at the general condition under which the engineers and our city employees are working, their salary, their working conditions generally. And I promise this to you of the state. I'll stand behind this promise personally. That, chiefly because of what I know that your profession means in the orderly management of a huge city like ours, I'll stand behind this promise that immediately the right thing will be done by your profession and city employees. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, I heard Fred talk to you about our beaches and pollution and our newspapers and our health department. Well, there is a time where something in the future might be dangerous to the health of the city, where something should be done now to prepare against that day. When a good deal of publicity to wake up the people to a great coming meeting is advisable and helpful. people, our beaches are very important to the people of our city, especially in the summertime. Our children, the crowded, hot streets, need the beaches in the summer. Their mother and dad need them. They've been a great service to our city. people. It is true that our health department has called attention to the need for sewage disposal treatment. It's true that some of our newspapers have done a lot of shouting about it, writing about it, for good advantage. But it's also true that the beaches are still safe for our people. There will be this summer and there will be the next summer and every summer until our present program is completed and I hope the newspapers say that because it's unfair to frighten the people from going to beaches. Honor the guys that they're unhealthy when the health department itself said that they're healthy enough for people to go there. It's not fair. I hope now that we are all aroused and that we have a definite plan for sewage this puzzle agreed upon now that we have organized our financial needs to meet that program. I hope now that there'll be just a little less play of denouncing the health future of our beaches until the Board of Health officially says they're unsafe. Up to that time there should be no more talk about it except what is the administration and whatever administration they're doing to carry out the plan. The plan is there. Now one of the things that this city has done in the past, and you rarely have any administration pay any compliment to the previous administration, I expect that after I get out of City Hall people will be right than mine until I die. But there's one thing that I've got to say, is that no matter what other shortcomings we found in January 1946, we did find this, that 41% of our city's sewage is treated, and that our problem now is to handle the other 59%. Remember, we get seven modern, up-to-date plants, handling 41% of our food. That was at a cost of $72 million in the days when a dollar was a dollar. The new problem, the one that we're going into, the new plant, what will cost us to do the full job, about $200 million. The immediate one will cost us between three intercepting sewers, and about seven plants will cost us about $95 million. dollars. That to be completed in about four years. And don't let them tell you that we were standing still down here even without that plant. Over here in Brooklyn and Bliss Park, we have a plant there, the Owl's Head. That plant will be built at a cost of $22 million by a little less than a year and a half from today will be in operation. That will include a huge intercepting sewer so that the sewerage of about 1,300,000 human units will be taken care of. When that is done, you're taking care of your South Beach, you're taking care of Braves End, you're taking care of Coney Island, and the 26th Ward up in Jamaica Bay. We've spent over four and a half million dollars to complete that. It's underway now. So that here you have Tidewater Flow actually taking in much more than the putrefaction of New York City because there is no way of telling the Tidewater to do with what comes from New Jersey. that means that we haven't been sound asleep, that we were not alive to the need. This work has been going on. Now we've got Archer Beach, we've got a hundred points, we've got a few others that will go on in due course. But the owl's head is well on its way. That'll be done. And between now and the time that's done, you gentlemen from Coney Island, I'll say now that enough harm has been done to the beaches, we don't need to hurt them anymore. That's my fault. I think that's as much as you should be obliged to hear from me today. I just got back in time to this meeting in Charleston, South Carolina. There's a festival down there at this time yesterday, I'd like to speak to the France Man Hotel. I just came up to talk to you. I wanted to talk to you. I wanted to welcome you. I wanted to tell you as the chief executive of this city that I know what engineering needs to properly handle in the length of our city. I know that without it would be topsy-turvy our schools, our public buildings, our streets, our sewers, our playgrounds, there be no sense of order to them. I know that you have been working quietly, you're refreshing, in the growth of this city, working quietly in the shadows, leaving permanent monuments behind you when you went away, while others made speeches and took the bows for what you had planned, for what you had devoted your lives to accomplish. I wanted to tell you from this platform that I don't know of any group I'm more pleased to welcome to this city. I do hope your convention here, your discourses, will be a mutual benefit to you. Certainly no one will ever accuse little old New York City of wanting to hold on to any of the wisdom to which it has become the air. What you do here will be good for us, and we'll thank you for what you bring. And we do hope that in your community, and throughout the nation, and someday throughout the world, the wisdom of your deliberations will make life happier and healthier lives for all the world. Thank you very much. The Honorable William O'Brien, Mayor of the City of New York, has just addressed the opening of the 22nd Annual Convention of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers here in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel New Yorker. Certainly no city in the world has been asked to solve more problems than the Mayor of the City of New York, and we we do know that from the standpoint of the Mayor's remarks today, that Engineering Factors has made it the great and wonder city that it is. And so with these remarks, we conclude the broadcast from the Hotel New Yorker. Mr. Robert A. Sovic, second vice president, presided and presented the Toastmaster, Frederick H. Zermulin, Commissioner of the Department of Public Works of the City of New York, one of the most responsible departments of its kind anywhere in the world. And so this concludes our broadcast from the Hotel New Yorker, where we turn you to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
