Starlight, star bright. Gee, I wish we had a place to go tonight. Gosh, I'm sorry, kid. We fellas at camp haven't any place to go. Haven't anything to do when we're off duty. You see, the town's only got 2,000 population. There are about 50,000 of us. Well, I think someone should do something about it. You're right, young lady, and somebody is doing something about it. To meet this great defense problem, the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organization to be known as USO. And today, USO is raising approximately $11 million to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs for our soldiers and sailors. But USO needs your help and the generous help of every American who believes in America. Give today to USO. Send your contributions to your local committee or to USO, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I hope that satisfied the old man. I've been up in this ship four times since noon. Oh, quit squawking, soldier. You've got to pass for the evening and your girl's in town. What more do you want? I'll tell you what I want. I want a decent place to take my girl. Well, we can dance, maybe see a movie. What chance do thousands of soldiers got in a town this size? Not much chance, soldier. But cheer up. You're not forgotten. To meet this emergency, the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organization, known as USO. And today, USO is raising approximately $11 million to staff and maintain 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs help. Give to USO today. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Okay, Private Green. Here's a pass for the weekend. See that you're back by midnight Sunday. Yes, sir. Midnight Sunday. That's a hot one. I'll probably be back by two this afternoon. Where can I go? What can I do? This town's overrun with soldiers now. There's no room for me. Cheer up, soldier. There will be room for you and a million and a half others. The American people won't forget you or what you're doing for them. There's a swell new organization composed of the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war that's to be known as United Service Organization, or USO. And today, USO is raising close to $11 million to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs for soldiers and sailors throughout the country. And USO is inviting every American to share in this great work. So give, and give generously to USO today. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Oh, Mildred, look. Isn't that a darling hat in that window? Oh, I beg your pardon, ma'am. I didn't see you. That's quite all right, young man. Let's go inside, Mildred. You know, since that army camp opened up, that town has been overrun with young soldiers with nothing to do. I think it's a shame that they haven't a place of their own to go to. Well, there's a new organization called USO, which means United Service Organization, and they're raising money right now to put 360 off-duty service clubs into operation. Well, that really sounds worthwhile. Uh, USO, you say? Yes. It's composed of the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war. But the USO needs help, and real help, from all the other civilians in the country. Oh, I'll be glad to help. I've been wanting to help somewhere in the defense work. Uh, where do I send my contributions? Send it to your local committee here, or to USO, 350 Fifth Avenue, New York City. I'll send a check to USO today. Oh, Mildred, look. Isn't that a darling hat in that window? Oh, I beg your pardon, ma'am. I didn't see you. Oh, that's quite all right, young man. Let's go inside, Mildred. You know, since that army camp opened up, the town has been overrun with young soldiers with nothing to do. And I think it's a shame that they haven't a place of their own to go to. Well, there's a new organization called USO, which means United Service Organizations. And they're raising money right now to put 360 off-duty service clubs into operation. Well, that really sounds worthwhile. Uh, USO, you say? Yes. It's composed of the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war. But the USO needs help, and real help, from all the other civilians in the country. Oh, I'll be glad to help. I've been wanting to help some way in the defense work. Where do I send my contributions? Send it to your local committee here, or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. I'll send a check to USO today. Hello there, soldier. Waiting for someone? Evening, officer. No, just haven't any place to go. Nothing to do. See, it'd be swell to have a nice place to meet my girl and dance, and maybe just sit and talk. But I reckon the army's doing all it can for us. You're right, soldier. The army is doing all it can and doing it well. But there's another army behind the army. The USO, the United Service Organization. And these six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war know that into towns of 1,000 to 5,000 population may come as many as 2,000 men on a single evening. Only a few can find places to eat. Hardly any can find wholesome entertainment. To meet this emergency, the USO is raising about $11 million to operate 360 off-duty service clubs. But the USO needs help. They need it now. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. Oh, well, I think I'll write a letter to Jimmy and go to bed. What do you suppose he's doing tonight? He had a pass to leave camp this evening. Oh, I don't know. But where do soldiers go when they leave camp? What do they do? What did you do in the last war? Oh, we found plenty to do in the cities near the camps. But the camps today aren't near the big cities. Don't worry, Mother. Jimmy can take care of himself. Well, I can't help thinking about it. Sure, every mother is thinking about it. Where those boys are, who they're with, and what they're doing. But there's something you and every other American can do to help solve this big defense problem. The six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organizations, to be known as USO. And today, USO is raising about $11 million to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So give. Give generously to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. Say, you're pretty good. Do you play handball often? No, but I want to get in condition. The army may need me. Gosh, I wish I were younger. I'd do anything for my country right now. Well, step right this way, mister. There's something you and every other American civilian can do. Many of the army camps and naval stations are located far from the larger cities. And into towns of 1,000 to 5,000 population may come as many as 2,000 men on a single evening. Not half of them can find places to eat. Hardly any can find opportunities for wholesome entertainment. To meet this emergency, the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organizations, or USO. Today, USO is raising $11 million to maintain 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So give generously to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. Sorry, Private Jones. There's no answer. No answer? Okay, thanks. All alone. What good's a pass in this man's army when I'm all alone? No place to go. All alone. No place to go. What good's a pass? All alone. No place to go. What good's a pass? What am I going to do? Yes, what is Private Jones going to do? Many of the newer army camps and naval stations are located far from the larger cities. Into towns of 1,000 to 5,000 population may come as many as 2,000 men on a single evening. Not half of them can find places to eat. Hardly any can find opportunities for wholesome entertainment. To meet this emergency, the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have formed a new organization to be known as United Service Organizations, or USO. Today, USO is raising about $11 million to staff and maintain 360 off-duty service clubs. But, USO needs your help, so give generously to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. Transfer free 15nın Nashville limousines you know. Oh, a little work won't hurt us as long as we can play when it's over. I got a pass for the night. Well, what good's that going to do you? Where you going? What are you going to do? The town can't take care of even a hundred extra men. And this is the same problem that's facing every town and city near army camps and naval stations. How to provide for the soldiers and sailors off duty. And this is our job, your job. How can you help? By giving generously to the United Service Organization, which is composed of the six leading organizations that help the soldiers and sailors in the last war. The USO is raising approximately 11 million dollars to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So give to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO 355th Avenue, New York City. The USO is a great job. Gosh, we sure take a beating in this man's army. Those tanks aren't limousines, you know. Oh, a little work won't hurt us as long as we can play when it's over. I got a pass for the night. Well, what good's that going to do you? Where are you going? What are you going to do? The town can't even take care of even a hundred extra men. And this is the same problem that's facing every town and city near army camps and naval stations. How to provide for the soldiers and sailors off-duty. And this is our job, your job. How can you help? By giving generously to the United Service Organization, which is composed of the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war. The USO is raising approximately 11 million dollars to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So give to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 356th Avenue, New York City. I think I'll have the apple pie and coffee. Yes, sir. By the way, Fred, did you hear Thomas Dewey the other night? He was telling about the work the USO is doing. No, I missed it. But say, what is the USO anyway? USO itself means United Service Organization, but it's actually composed of the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war. But what's their purpose? To see that the boys have decent places to go when they're off-duty. Many of the camps and naval stations are situated near small towns, which are not prepared to take care of several thousands of boys off-duty. Say, that is a problem, all right. I'd like to help. How can I? By giving whatever you can to USO to help maintain and staff about 360 off-duty service clubs. How much would it cost? Only about 11 million dollars. Little enough to give for the boys who are giving so much for us. Where do I send my contributions? To the local committee here or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. But do it today, Fred. This job can't wait. Oh, Tommy, I'm so glad you could leave camp tonight. Yeah. Am I lucky to have a girl like you to send an evening with? Oh, here's the dance hall. Two tickets, please. Sorry, told you. We're all filled up. Filled up? But where can we go? This is the only place in town. It's me, buddy. That's somebody else's problem. You're right about that, mister. Giving our soldiers and sailors places to go and things to do when they're off-duty is somebody else's problem. And here's what we're doing about it. The six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organization, known as USO. And today, USO is raising approximately 11 million to staff and maintain over 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So dig down into your pockets. Dig deeply for those who are digging in for you. Give to USO today. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City. Forward, march! America is building an army, a magnificent army. But it's time America woke up to the fact that an army is more than camps and you ought to provide for these men off-duty. Many of the army camps and naval stations are located far from the larger cities, into towns of a thousand to five thousand population, may come as many as two thousand men on a single evening. Not half of them can find places to eat. Hardly any can find opportunities for wholesome entertainment. To meet this emergency, the six leading organizations that helped the soldiers and sailors in the last war have combined to form the United Service Organization, to be known as USO. And today, USO is raising approximately 11 million dollars to maintain more than 360 off-duty service clubs. But USO needs your help. So give generously to USO. Send your contribution to your local committee or to USO, 355th Avenue, New York City.