From the ones that took our ancestors to the Holy Land, or Chaucer's Wayfarers to Canterbury. For this time, because of the vastness of our country, we are taking the shrine to the people, instead of the people to the shrine. But the spirit and the purpose are the same. Today, it is a means of paying our profound respect to the ideas in which all Americans believe that will open the train to the public. Merrill Dwyer. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen, the Freedom Train, with its treasure of historical manuscripts and documents, will be here in our city for almost a week. Tomorrow, it will be open to the public. I request, I strongly urge the people of our city to visit this unique traveling exhibit. I am proud of the Freedom Train. It is an example of the ingenuity which has made our country great. As students, many of us have read our outstanding historical documents in the appendices of school books. Later, we read them from the framed facsimiles on office walls. But very few of us have ever had the thrill of looking at the originals. To see them would involve travels to archives, libraries, government departments, and private collections in different parts of the country. To see them would involve the public. Something impossible for the average citizen. In this train, ladies and gentlemen, all those documents are collected from many sources and sent by rail to the doorsteps of our cities so that the nation may read its documentary history from the original papers. Among more than 100 documents, the train brings us our Declaration of Independence, which marked the beginning of our freedom from foreign tyranny. It brings to us our Constitution, which gave us our form of government, a democracy in a republic, or American democracy, as we have come to use and understand the term. Thank God that after 160 years of tremendous growth and grave crises, that Constitution is still the supreme law of the land. It brings us the Bill of Rights, which are the first ten amendments to the Constitution. That old, faded parchment and the train guarantees our personal liberties and principally the right to worship as we choose and our freedom of speech. It brings us the Gettysburg Address, which children the country over have committed to memory for generations. The train carries the original written by Lincoln himself and from which he read his immortal classic of American literature. It brings us the German and Japanese surrender papers of the recent war and the first signed copy of the United Nations Charter. I am happy that the sponsors had the imagination to include recent documents with the old documents of our history, because the G.I. who fell at Tarawa and the Continental who fell at Trenton all died to make America what it is today. As the Freedom Train stops at city after city in all 48 states, over 33,000 miles of track, Americans will visit it to see their precious documents. They will want to see the basic documents of their government, because they are convinced more than ever that it is the best form of government ever devised by man. In our own day, particularly since the First World War, we have seen innovations in other forms of government. Some have already disappeared after a brief trial. Other experiments are continuing. There is no form of government in the world today as effective and inspiring as American democracy. These sacred documents and the glorious history they represent should indelibly impress upon all Americans the priceless privilege we enjoy as citizens of this nation. They should inspire us to rededicate ourselves forever to preserve and protect our American heritage and the constitutional form of government under which we live. Ladies and gentlemen who are listening in, please, do not, do not let this opportunity pass by. Come and visit this Freedom Train. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer. And now we here in Grand Central Station. Mr. Brophy and Mr. Novens, the president and vice president, respectively, of the American Heritage Foundation. And now the mayor of the city of New York. We will cut the ribbon, which will throw open the train and its precious documents and its flags to the people of our greater city of New York. The cameramen are having their innings now, and it's very important, of course, we have a picture of this historic event as well. Someday that will be in the annals of history when this Freedom Train was opened to the public here on track 30 at Grand Central Station. Jimmy Sauter is down there by the ribbon cutting. And now do you see anything more, Jimmy? Tom, from up here, I can see one of the most inspiring sites that we've ever seen here in the city of New York. Our mayor is about to cut the ribbon, which will allow the train to be declared officially open. The flashlight bulbs are going on, the regular barrage. Flashlight bulbs here, there must be 35 carcasses here. Every member of the working press in New York must be here in the station. The station is far back as I can see. The car is filled with people eager and ready to go on the train. We will now have our national anthem played by the band at the Parkland Center Nation, and led by John Celebrate, and sung by the police fleet, led by Sartre Dillon, our national anthem. You're the same, and you'll see by the dawn's early light what so proudly we hailed and the twilight's last gleaming those broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous might all the ramparts we once were so gallantly streaming as the rocket's last gleaming the bombs bursting in air came proof through the night that the flag was still there Oh, say does that star-spangled that I yet play Oh, say does that star-spangled that I yet play Oh, say does that star-spangled that I yet play On the land of the free And the home of the brave And so, ladies and gentlemen, the Freedom Train, the people are passing in now to the train to view these historic documents. We had an opportunity to take a quick view ourselves, and we can assure you it's one of the rarest streets you'll ever enjoy as you pass through the train. You see the actual original of Lincoln's Gettysburg Address at 1215, that is the date, the century, the 13th century copy of Magna Carta, an actual copy, the first book printed in the colonies in 1640. I can't name all the documents. The train itself is a magnificent piece of mechanism beautifully gotten together, and certainly the American Heritage Foundation has measured up to the nobility of the documents in preparing the train itself to display them. Now, the train will be on track 30 here at Grand Central all day tomorrow and Thursday and Friday, and then Brooklyn has its great day down in the yards at Flatbush Avenue and Avenue H when the Freedom Train will serve the people of Brooklyn from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. There'll be appropriate ceremonies there. The borough president of Brooklyn, John Cashmore, and speakers will keep the people entertained with speeches from platforms at the Freedom Train over there. Grand Central has a magnificent setting here for it, and you'll enjoy the privilege of seeing these documents. Your city station at 8.30 this evening has an American Heritage program produced by Frank Rosa and members of the staff of your city station in a special edition which Mr. Louis Untermyer himself prepared at the city radio station with appropriate music and poetry outlining the heroics of Washington Lincoln and our great pageantry of statesmen. So join us at 8.30 for this particular program, and don't fail to visit Track 30 at Grand Central for the Freedom Train so magnificently equipped and gotten together in this collection of historic documents by the American Heritage Foundation. Tuesday morning, 8.20, means that your Department of Markets, Eugene G. Schultz Commissioner, brings a guest speaker to the program to discuss with you one of the particular faces of food, and our guest this morning is an old friend, Mrs. Marion Allen of New York, New England, and New Jersey Apple Institutes, who's going to talk with Ms. Shaughnessy about a very adaptable fruit in the daily menu, oldest creation, the apple. And the title of her talk is Know Your Apples. Ms. Shaughnessy speaks first. That's a very welcome subject on this program, Mrs. Allen, and I'm curious about that title, because I thought if there's one fruit we do all know it's the ever-popular apple. Yes, I know, Ms. Shaughnessy. Even children have learned their alphabets by saying A is for Apple. But really, there's so much to know about apples that I hardly know where to begin. I don't mean a mic-struck, if there is such a thing, but what I have in mind today is to point out how important it is to know varieties of apples. After all, I believe there are 2,000 varieties. But out of all those, there are just a few which mean anything to us as housewives. Well, this certainly is the opportune time to look into the question, because it is apple time right now. Yes, it is. And that's what I want to talk about, too. I want to suggest we go native about apples. I mean that to make the most of apples in our markets today, which are coming to us from neighborhood orchards, they're really the finest apples we can buy. And right now, when I suggest we know our apples, I mean just that. No, the luscious, crisp-fleshed Macintosh, so plentiful in the markets now. The Cortland, also waiting to be polished off. It's such a wonderful dessert and salad apple. The white flesh stays white so much longer than any other apple when it's been cut, which is surely a boon to the salad maker. And the delicious, the Jonathan, the greening, and the all-wonderful, all-round stamens in the markets, too. Really, I think of all the fruits and a long list of luscious fruits. The apple is about the most versatile. I think you're right about that. Apples are a fruit for the whole family. Children love them, just as we say to get their teeth into them. And certainly for the homemaker, there is no fruit which offers more ways to serve without repeats. The only thing about the repeats is that some apple dishes are so good they have to be repeated. I don't know a man who won't read a dessert list full of tempting suggestions and then say, I'll have apple pie. That's right. That's the all-American dessert. But to get back to your first suggestion, how about apples? It does make considerable difference in selection by variety if we get the most from our apple buys. That's absolutely right. McIntosh and stamen apples are wonderful all-round apples. They're grand just as is to eat out of hand and they make marvelous baked apples. They keep their shape and flavor and they're also perfect for applesauce. The Jonata is particularly nice for applesauce, too, if you like a pink sauce. It certainly tastes delicious and looks attractive. And the greening, my goodness. There are some people who don't believe a pie is a real apple pie unless it's made with greenings. And they really are wonderful, too. Another one of our eastern varieties, the greening is also one of the oldest. Our great-grandmothers considered the greening just tops for pie in general cooking when a firm tart apple was wanted. You see, we really do have a wonderful heritage of this oldest creation fruit right here in our home orchard. Just to go over the names once again, we have McIntosh, Cortland, Delicious, Jonathan, Greening, and Stamen, and a little later we'll have our own beauty. Those are all top-drawer names, aren't they? Indeed they are. And most important, each and every one of them has so many uses. We know they're wonderful eating apples as well as cooking apples, with the exception of the greening, which I prefer as a cooking apple only. The McIntosh is such a generally fine apple. It's no wonder it has become one of the most popular in our apple buying and menu planning. And that brings up a point, incidentally, Ms. Shaughnessy. That's a point for here and now. The McIntosh is very plentiful in our markets today, and some of them are not so rosy-cheeked as usual. Well, that's because the recent warm weather kept them from coloring up. That is some of the supply. But it's an ill wind, ill wind, shall we say, because there's a tip there on thrift. Those less highly colored Macs are every bit as fine for cooking as the McIntosh always is. But because of this lack of color, they're comparably lower in price. They're an excellent cooking grade, and will give the same fine flavor and satisfaction, baked, or in sauce, or cobble, or betty. Well, we couldn't ever mention all the delightful apple dishes there are. That McIntosh is scotch in name only. Well, that buying tip is very important, Mrs. Allen. In fact, to put first things first, we have to buy our apples before we cook them, and knowledge and selection were of prime importance. The fruit we select should be fresh and crisp and free from injuries or defects. If, of course, we have the condition you spoke of where there was no injury to the fruit, just a matter of its good looks, and is sold as a cooking grade apple, there is no reason for not taking advantage of that opportunity to use this fine fruit and have an economical buy at the same time. It's also important to remember that apples should be kept cool and fresh in the home, too. Yes, they should be kept away from strong flavored foods. Excuse me. They breathe in strong odor. As a matter of fact, apples out of hand taste best if they're chilled before eating. It seems to enhance their natural goodness. Not only should they be kept cool, but apples require moist air. Dry air takes moisture from them because, as you said, they do breathe, and dry air tends to shrivel the apple. Something else just occurred to me about cooking apples, and that is the importance of not overcooking. It takes away flavor and some of the fine health and food value of the apple and isn't necessary in order to have a cooked apple flavor. In fact, baked apples are so much finer if they're firm and apple-like, if there is such a word, instead of cooked away to a mushy consistency. Only overcooking brings that result. Well, mention of that food and health value, of course, will remind all of us that eating raw apples gives us the greatest possible value of the apple from the health standpoint. The apple is an ideal fruit for the children's lunchbox, for instance, and I've yet to know a child who did not like apples. Most grown-up children like them, too. In fact, apples are a fruit and a subject that could well go on forever. And now is the time, with autumn in the air and apples in the market, from neighborhood orchards, to go native and know your apples. That's right, Mrs. Allen, and thank you so much for coming here this morning and telling us about this all-popular topic, apples. And now, housewives, we'll give you the following low-to-moderate-cost suggestions that are offered for today's menus. For lunch, we suggest cream of green pea soup canned, and this is creamed with one-and-a-half cups of evaporated milk or fresh milk. And we have poached eggs on cornbread squares, grapes, milk for all the family. And for dinner, codfish cakes made with dry skim milk, spaghetti with vegetable sauce, panned kale, bread and margarine, deep dish apple, uh, peach pie using canned peaches, tea or coffee for adults, milk for children. This dinner will cost $2.50 for a family of five. And for tomorrow's breakfast, canned tangerine juice, farina with milk, bread and margarine, coffee for adults and milk for children. Now, the Department of Markets always encourages homemakers to use fish more frequently and stresses its palatability and nutritive value, as well as the inexpensive varieties that can be purchased. The high prices of other important protein foods right now offer us the opportunity of increasing our consumption of fish by eating this excellent food more than one day of the week. And among the good values in this morning's wholesale market, we find such favorites as cod, haddock, pollock and flounders. A liberal supply of weak fish is arriving from nearby waters and prices are reasonable. This delicious fish is available in its fresh state on the New York market from May through December. It has a somewhat flat body and is of olive green color above with sides which vary in color. The sides may be green, blue, gold or copper in hue, dotted with either green or bronze spots. Weak fish are generally broiled or baked, although they may be successfully cooked by any of the other methods. Good suggestions also include porgies, whiting and yellowtails. As for the freshwater varieties, supplies are fairly good. In fact, whitefish, carp and mullet have declined about 25% on the wholesale cost since the first of the month and are now selling at fairly reasonable levels. At this season of the year, it is quite pleasant to be able to tell you that there are many nearby items that you may include in your vegetable marketing list. They are in good quality and in supply are reasonable in cost and include spinach, cabbage, kale, Swiss chard, escarole and dandelion greens. Then there are bunched beets, celery knobs, kohlrabi, oyster plants and parsnips. Heavy receipts of mushrooms from Pennsylvania and upstate bring this much favored vegetable well within the reasonable range. An acorn and hubbysquash are good values, but the Halloween just a few weeks away, faced pumpkins are arriving in the market in very good supply and attractively priced. Root vegetables that are low in cost are yellow turnips, also the white bunch variety, sweet and white potatoes and cut carrots. There was a good note in this morning's wholesale market that the bunched western carrots are considerably lower at wholesale cost than they have been in some weeks. Though the receipts of snap beans are liberal, there is the question of quality to be considered. So for good quality, you will pay fairly high prices. Other vegetables high in cost are artichokes, broccoli, cauliflower, lima beans, cucumbers, good quality tomatoes and eggplants. In fruits, selection of good values are to be found in all varieties of grapes, especially seedless and toquays. Also the eastern apples and the western, which are lower and fairly reasonable. Honeydew melons are a good buy. Cassava, Santa Claus and Persians are moderate in price. Most sizes and grades of oranges remain reasonable. Grapefruit ranges according to quality and size from reasonable to high. California shipped the first of the season's rhubarb, which is naturally high in cost. Thank you, Mrs. Allen and Ms. Shaughnessy. We have as our guest this morning, Mrs. Marion Allen, who discussed with Ms. Shaughnessy the value of apples and of course, we all know how valuable they are and what an adaptable addition to the menu they are in salads, cooking, or just as a plain good apple to eat. We all know the vitamin and mineral source of the apple and consider that in making up those daily nutritious menus. And speaking of nutrition, your Department of Health follows with a nutrition discussion in just a moment. You're listening to New York City's own station, WNYC. Thank you. Thank you.