Ladies and gentlemen, I was brought up as an engineer, and 10 o'clock for me is 10 o'clock. So we'll like to follow our usual practice in the hearings of this committee and start all the sessions sharply on time. This, as you know, is a public hearing of the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on Problems of the Agents. We have a very distinguished list of speakers to address the committee this morning. As you can see from the program, which copies are available for such a few as may not already have them. A bit unusual for a public hearing, in addition to a very distinguished list of speakers, we have a distinguished audience. Because, again, as you may tell from glancing over this list, this is largely a hand-picked audience. It's open to the public, of course, as any meeting of a joint legislative committee should be in the form of a public hearing. But most of the members of this audience have been personally invited, and we're grateful to so many of you coming from as far as Canada and Chicago and Washington, and helping to give the speakers an audience which they must, as the members of the committee do, deeply appreciate. We're also very grateful to the broadcasting station of WNYC, because they have extended to us, I think, almost the limit of their courtesy. We didn't want to have this meeting, the speeches of this meeting go out directly over the air, because in that case it's been a little difficult for us to set our program, and we would have to, as often happens in broadcasting arrangements, impartedly sacrifice the immediate meeting for the sake of the broadcasting. So WNYC, as I said before, has extended us most unusual courtesy. They're taking down every word of this hearing, from 10 to 1, 2.30 to 5, and then they're going to broadcast it later to the benefit of this modern development of wire recording. We're also having a stenographic record taking of the meeting by the Senate stenographer. I mention that because some of the speakers may speak informally and wonder or not if the copies of the remarks will later be available as they will. And that also pertains to such discussion as may develop from the floor. Thank you. The members of the legislative committee and the speakers are indeed gratified at this enormous attendance at this hearing. This is the largest room available in the state office building for a legislative hearing. We're sorry of the inconvenience. As you can see, we're doing our best to get as many folding chairs as the building will supply in order to get seats for you all, or as many of us as possible, as soon as we reasonably can. I have a special feeling in introducing our next speaker, Dr. Seward Crampton, because it is as a result of a suggestion made by Dr. Crampton a couple of years ago in this very room, an incidental remark while he was speaking on another subject, that led to the formation of this legislative committee on problems of the ages. And Dr. Crampton was very helpful through various public statements in influencing the legislature to set up this committee. As you know, it's no new problem to him because he's given generously of his time and abilities for many years to this relatively new science of geriatrics. Dr. Crampton appears here particularly in his capacity as chairman of the subcommittee on geriatrics of the Medical Society of New York County, and he will discuss medical aids and benefits at 40, 60, and 80. Dr. Crampton. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what a wonderful introduction that is that I could get in summary credit for starting in Senator Desmond on his magnificency of work for the aged in this state. I'm a very happy man, and I'm happy because of the great achievements of our chairman of Senator Desmond. And I'm going to continue right straight on a special topic in relation to the aged, which is this. There are aids, benefits, advantages, and blessings which the physician can bring to those at the age of 40, 60, and 80 who have never had the benefits of any medical care except for rescue from their pains and immediate illnesses. That's all that they've asked the doctor for is to take care of their pain. That's all they've gotten from the doctor, take care of their pains and their immediate illness. That's all right. That's wonderful. That's fine. And we can improve on it. We are as year by year goes on. You'll see some more excellent things coming, but I'm not going to talk about that now. I'm going to talk about the additional blessings and aids and benefits in addition to getting nearly cured. When I was a small boy, I remember my father who was a doctor bringing home a kiss of little things, and one was a ditty like this. Oh, dear mother, what a pain I got. Take me down to the proprietary shop and get me something I don't care what only to stop this pain I got. That's the attitude of the public in general, and that's the attitude of the patient. And now we have something more. Well, at the higher degrees of health, I would like to have established it all through this state clinic for stations for the development of higher degrees of health. There's much more to be done. We have taken men and women who have been simply in the vegetable stage in wheelchairs or in beds and vegetating and stagnating in their age and got them up and out and going and back to work from the bed to the wheelchair, wheelchair to the crutch, to the crutch, back to the bench. That's good. That's a rescue of the mind, a rescue of the body, a rescue of the soul, something big for the community. We're wasting money in hospital beds. We're keeping hospital beds from sick people just because of these stagnations, and these are correctable. You can do a lot for them. It's been done. Here in New York, it's been done in England. Battersea has done some wonderful things. Several howl has did it. As you know, let's see if we can get through this in my ten minutes. The man of 60 is a documentary person. He has the relics of his past illnesses. He carries the batons. And if you go to work on him, you can see that his age, as they call it, is not so much chronological age as it is damaged. Our enemy is not aged. It's damaged. Damaged anatomically, physiologically, damaged psychologically. These are the things that if we can lift, and we can't, many of them, lift these damages, take them away, we de-age that man. We rehabilitate him. It looks like rejuvenation. It's not rejuvenation. It doesn't come back to you. But you take age and age things away from him. I think I can use, and you can use that way, de-aging. De-aging. And it makes all the doctors trickle up and say, you can't do it. But it looks very much like it, and we shall see what the teachers can do. The man is unburdened, unquestioned about that. He's refreshed. No question about that. And some of the things we see are truly stimulating. This hasn't got into textbooks yet. It hasn't got into the medical field. It's coming out. Now how do we do it? First place, you have a man of 60, 50, 40, or you can get them in their 10s and 20s. You get them at birth. You can do a lot in the prevention of these births and aging. You get them before birth. You can do a lot, too. But my best patients haven't yet been born. Some of them are in their 80s. Some of them are 90s. What you can do at 6 will come out at 60. What you can do before birth, we still have to see. That's another secret. Now the examination. The examination will have to be not only examination for illnesses, but examination for those things, illnesses that were passed. Damages here, burdens of one kind or another, and the illnesses that are going to come. That's a new and a dark subject and a very hopeful one. several different national organizations have been formed in the last 10 years trying to find about illness to come. They may come back to that. Now this examination will reveal these things that we've been looking for, these beds, and will open to you the next stage, which is that of de-aging. Now de-aging, I've given here seven points and this will be printed and that's going to take more than my about 10 minutes so I can help it. First, there are present infections. You can attack the infections that are already in a person. They may be in teeth and gallbladder, prostates, or tubes. Some of these things, however, are undiscoverable locally. You can't find them. But you can see evidence of them in the blood. There's a look of cytosis. There's a shift to the left in the granulation of the blood. You can get them by counting the fixation test, the pulse speed. And sometimes you can infer them by the damages that appear as illnesses and diseases, which nobody knows where they come from, like high blood pressures and things like that. Now, when you can't find the things, you can attack them. You can't find them, but you can attack them. This has been done. You can make a sweeping catch into this sea of things you can't find and nullify them. You can attack them by the good old biotic penicillin. And if you run a penicillin page, here's a man who came in, said, Doctor, I have never felt so well. As I have in the last two months, not in all my life. He's a 66 years of age. And it's one of these antibiotic perjuice, which is mainly responsible and just that thing. He didn't know he was sick. He didn't know he was not well. But here's something new, and he's good. He's also good. He's edited one of our monthly magazines around the country. Now, you can get to those. There's a medical technique which is commencing it's new. It's new. But you see, you're not going to get it unless you demand it. You just go with your pain, there's the doctors, well, there's the pain, I found the pain. Oh, there goes your pain, but there are you. What led that pain? There's still going to be for more pain. New items. attack infections. Whether you can find them or not, attack them. The next thing is nutrition. Now, it is nutrition. You got me started and then things followed. Because I came out with the idea that nutrition is a danger. There are things that you can avoid, but then there are blessings and privilege you can get out of things that ordinarily you eat and you get just enough in your food to get by, but if you step that up a hundredfold or ten thousandfold, you'll get something big, beautiful, strong, and powerful that nature was very sparse and stingy about giving you. And you can get those and you can get some of those blessings. A woman's hand, age 60, claw-like and like a mummy. You've seen them? All sorts of different colors and then shrinking down. Those hands can, have been, sometimes, maybe, made to smooth out and blossom again and it isn't rubbing into cream on it either. It's rubbing things on the inside. You know, there are two sides to the skin. And, you know, like on the inside, you've got something, you've got something. That's just one of those things and we leave the print for the rest of it. And make some vitamins. Now, I've thought, really, the vitamins and I've said there are things in nutrition which nature spins you about that you can use them. And you can pick one out. B12, for example, it's one of our new things. For the casket, there are other things. There's an anti-gray hair factor that disappointed so many people. They tried it and didn't get it. But there's vitamin A of a particular type which will buttress up the mucous membranes and nose and throat and chest so that you don't get colds like you did before and you throw them away. And even though you do have these anti-histamine things that works at the 95% of the times you take them before you ever get the cold. I won't go into that but that's a new one and I said, ask your doctor about that. If she doesn't know what to come up and look it up she'll have a good time too. Stagnation is the thing which you can't take away from old people. The stagnation kills more people than fatigue. See, a lot of people die in bed, you know, than die in any other place and if you can get them out of bed you can do a lot for them. Now you take a stagnant liver or a stagnant colon and find out if they are stagnant what damage they're doing to the rest of the body doing a good deal. Stagnant colon is like this. The person has a bowel movement every day and yet they not clean that colon once in 30 days. But people are sick they get sicker so they don't know why it is and you can find it out by a single test. leisurely you like to see a leisurely heart beating at 50-60 beats a minute instead of 80-100 and that's important still. Endocrine's next topic I'm going to give you a page in a few moments so you can set it out of the print. Endocrine. A new era comes along with endocrine as you know we've got a nice little one from the cortex which wipes out immediately rheumatoid arthritis. But the good old fashioned sex hormones are still being used. They call them old fashioned it's only 10, 15, 20 years we've been using them. We are however seldom using the male sex hormone alone for males. They are budgeting that up for the female sex hormones and one or two of the pituitary or adrenal depending upon the type of a man and his condition. The old era is the endocrine in teams. You never saw a football team consisting of one man. Now this is the endocrine team you send to coach the whole team select them up clean them up and put them into the game. That's the endocrine situation. Now that illustrates also our attacks on de-aging. We send a team to work and not a single man. People have single-track minds. They say I've got a single illness. Give me that thing for me to take care of it like antihistamine drugs with a cold. And the single thing. Now modern medicine is becoming holistic considering the man as a whole consisting of a team consisting of thousands, hundreds, hundreds of thousands of people on the team. They take care of all those different people on the team so they use endocrine. And if you use endocrine to the bone without your vitamins, without your nutrition, without your detoxification, you are doing wrong setting a single pass back into winning the game that you want to do. Structures, next thing, anatomical aging. I think I was about the first in America to bring out the same physiological age. Started out in 1904, introduced the St. Louis Exposition, and got a gold medal for the thesis. It's so delightful Canadian. See, people get up and say it isn't anatomical. It isn't chronological age. It isn't chronological age, it's physiological age. That is marvelous. Living 40 or 50 years, she back comes with the child for another 50 years. So I'm delighted with that. And now there's psychological age, too, I'll come to that, and the structural age, anatomical age. Anatomical age consists of shrinking down so the old man gets like this and her head goes on. The chest goes down now if you get that head out. You pull the chest up, you get the heart more room. The heart will thank you, it'll live longer, and they may postpone the coronary to help your blood process. And if you do an exercise to bring these people up, you can see a slush of use will come momentarily to the cheek anyway, and it increases the end of the menstrual. Such a psychological, psychological age. Now we're getting into a phase in medicine, psychosomatic medicine, psychoanalysis, all that sort of thing, and it's marvelous, marvelous. But we're getting over on a deep end of the psychology and forgetting that there is such a thing as the body. And we'll come back again, of course, but the wise of us remember that the body and mind can help each other a great deal, and the psychologist who wakes alone is a limited, probably, right. And the physiologist who wakes alone without the psychologist in himself, otherwise, he is also limited. The body and the mind are at the mercy of each other. Must be remembered. And the body and mind can indeed help each other enormously if you know how to work. He takes some of these vitamins. Poor old man lying down there staggered. Vitamin B1, carbon chloride, may be all he needs to get them out of there and up and going and being a nuisance instead of a mere cloud. And that's been done. B1. Now don't use that loan, please. Some factors would be easy. Have I got another minute? A little half? A little half. They wasn't engaged in so many years. Now that's nothing. You're just the aging man and they put him back in the wake. He'll get aged again and they come to the straight part of this whole program. First is the examination. A lot of people say I got an examination and that's all there is. That's like trying to jump over a ditch by taking a long run and not jumping. De-aging comes next. De-aging which I told you about. Now comes this lifelong service of coaching by the physician who knows the life and muscles and men and medicine as well. And he keeps on this man and he comes back when he has to to have his liver examined to check up on his exercise, his nutrition, his hemoglobin, prostate, or gallbladder, or psyche or whatever it is to see how he's handling things. Coaching. Life coaching. Little thing. Fine thing. It's an old thing. But on a scientific basis up to date and here it is. Three things there for examination, de-aging, and life coaching. Now I won't go out to state. I've wanted a lot of things from the I got in the last few or three years. This may happen, but it'll happen the teamwork not by clinics. De-aging stations established throughout the state to every hundred thousand people. De-aging for examination, for de-aging, for life service. And particularly for people over 1660. And there's something about those stations. I would almost insist that the men who run these stations shall be at least 60 years of age or 70 themselves. A stops at wounds. The scars will never felt a wound. And those who know have been through it. You get a doctor that's been through there and is still alive. He can be good. This clinic, no place for a doctor in a hurry, a young doctor in a hurry. He was something else. And these, Mr. Tanner, I suggest that you'll notify the different communities and that you establish places at Albany, New York, and Buffalo, and call the communities to send their seniors, 60, 60, 70, up there for a period of refreshing, a refreshing talk. And that they themselves shall be examined and de-aged and coached and then go back and take the gospel, which will be themselves as well as their message, and to these stations throughout the state. So may it be. Thank you, Dr. Sampson. I'm going to remind the speakers that these microphones, they may think they're loud speakers, but they're not. And they are devices for reporting their remarks on these new wire reporters for transcription later over WNYC. So I hope the other speakers will speak as loud as they reasonably can, and if the remarks aren't clear in the back of the room, just jump up and say so. And I'm also going to ask the members of our staff at the doors to ask the people in the fall outside to be as quiet as they reasonably can. Our next speaker is Dr. E.M. Bluestone, the director of Montefiore Hospital for Chronic Diseases of New York City. Dr. Bluestone will discuss medical care for prolonged illness. My friends, it is quite a pleasure for me to be speaking here immediately after the previous speaker, an old friend of mine with whom I've been in agreement for a long time on many things. but I must say that I sympathize with him and with everybody in the audience this morning, with all the speakers that preceded me and with the speakers that will follow me. Even though this is a public speaker's dream in a way, a full house, standing room only, and no chance to get out even if you want to. I have the limit to 20 minutes and I'm going to do the best I can to make this presentation to you in that time. But I want to say this to you before I start, that this is in a way a climactic presentation for me, because the program that I'm going to place before you has been thought out over a long period of years, mostly in the best laboratory, hospital laboratory of its kind that I know of. Montefiore Hospital happens to be the only voluntary general hospital of its kind in existence and it is there that this program is thought out. I hope that you will, those of you who can bear with me these 20 minutes will listen carefully. The rest who might want to doze off will find these remarks written out. I hope they'll be passed around. But in any case, I hope that you will remember that I'm speaking to you in dead earnest and that I hope you will do something about it. Broadly speaking, three vital agents are involved in any discussion of the economics of medical care for prolonged illness. First, the patient, second philanthropy, and third, government. In the voluntary non-profit hospitals of this country, the income from all patient sources toward the cost of their maintenance last year was 89%. The relative burden of cost for their care on philanthropy and government was therefore only 11%. It is only necessary to add before an audience like this that if philanthropy does not make good its share, it is clear that government must be invoked and no one has the right to complain when in circumstances like these, government does step in to help dependent people who cannot help themselves or get volunteers to help them. what I am saying here applies to any hospital or any type of medical care which the sick, the near sick, or the recently sick may require. However, as we transfer these observations from the so-called acute general hospital to the chronic hospital, in an age when such artificial and demoralizing distinctions are still being made as a matter of actual practice, we cannot help noting that the contribution of the patient toward his care is progressively reduced with the continuance of his illness. Patients suffering from prolonged illness, known too often as chronic patients in the hopeless, helpless, and incurable connotation of the term, become involved eventually in a vicious cycle from which the philanthropist, with or without the help of the taxpayer, must provide an escape. poverty and prolonged illness pursue each other relentlessly where society does not step in to break the circle. In the only voluntary general hospital of its kind in America devoted to the scientific care of prolonged illness, namely Montefiore Hospital in New York City, the total contribution of all of its patients toward their care on a comparable basis is only 24%. In this hospital, ward patients, as part of the total patient group, contribute only 6% toward their maintenance. The burden that must be borne by philanthropy and government with patients suffering from prolonged illness becomes heavier as the patient's financial reserves disappear. This financial problem is before us more pressingly than ever in view of the sheer numbers of people suffering from prolonged illness, and in particular the relation of such illness to the aging process. There are worse things in this world than dying young or dying suddenly. We are learning painfully that there is such a tragic thing as dying on your feet, in a wheelchair, on a stretcher, or in bed over long periods of time. We should therefore be as much concerned with discomfort and unhappiness as we are with pain and with the prevention of death. prolonged illness is more characteristic of age than of youth, though by no means limited to age. The reason for this is that the human body, as it wears out and as it acquires a succession of medical episodes through life, becomes progressively less resistant to the ravages of illness. We are getting considerable help these days through the wonderful contributions of scientific medicine, but the net effect of these contributions is to prolong life in terms of years. The productive medical scientist has been placing in the eager hands of the social worker golden opportunities for joint effort in the exercise of a relatively new specialty, known as social medicine or human ecology, which has for its ultimate objective the happiness of the agent as well as of all others who can benefit from its ministration. the public. It is to this specialty that philanthropy and government must look in a joint effort to solve the problem created by age and by dependence generally. these thoughts lead me to complain about the difference between acute and chronic, or what is more to the point between the urgent and the non-urgent in community reaction to varying pressures. log in the safeguarding of the patient suffering from from prolonged illness between acute and chronic is a survival of the pre-scientific era. The response to urgency has thus far governed the charitable heart, but I submit that the acid test of charity in its most philanthropic sense is the response which it makes to lesser-agent situations to the unvoiced appeal of the patient sufferer from prolonged illness. Response to urgency is compelling and relatively satisfactory. As long as the feeling of mutual aid prevails among men, we will be able to count fully and heavily on it in acute situations. But we have come into an era of longer life and of relatively longer periods of illness, which may lead to social dependence. We have also come into an era of greater availability of medical and social ways and means of dealing with them, and the sooner we plan for the less urgent, the better. The threat of imminent death and the presence of agonizing signs and symptoms will evoke an immediate response in almost every case. We must now accept a cardinal principle of preventive medicine, coupled with a cardinal principle of social medicine, under which every effort must be made not only to prevent illness, but if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, to prevent death, chronicity, complications, sequelae, relapses, and social dependence. How is this to be achieved? What is the cost of achievement? And what are its benefits? How long can we continue the unjust, inexperitable, and often indecent distribution of medical facilities that characterize our time? The acute general hospital has a try at the condition. If it succeeds through its own efforts, with or without the help of nature, well and good. But if the condition does not respond quickly to treatment, the patient must look to his safety and his comfort elsewhere. But where does one find a medical facility which is the equal of the general hospital? It is not enough to point with pride to the achievements of the modern general hospital and to say, which is perfectly true, that it is the very best resource of civilization for the practice of scientific medicine. Why does it limit its benefits so severely? What about the non-acute, that vast segment of suffering humanity which is less vocal, still needing a hospital bed, and equally deserving of the best that scientific medicine affords? The clinical and social problems confronting the acute general hospital are relatively simple and more quickly dealt with. They are more dramatic for the philanthropist and more spectacular for the clinician. However, it is the patient suffering from prolonged illness with a difficult, stubborn, and often complicated clinical condition, which gives a slow response, if any, to treatment, that remains an eternal challenge to the man of science, to philanthropy, and to governance. No one seems to differ in principle in the contention that neither age nor duration of illness should stay the hand of the planner in the field of medical care. Yet in practice, all but the acutely sick are outsiders as far as the superb facilities of a modern general hospital are concerned. Look into your non-acute medical facilities and the exceptions that prove the rule, and you will agree that we must seek new, more equitable, and more decent ways of dealing with humanity's problem of medical disability. The science of medicine must share the wealth in such a way that those people will benefit from it who need it, for this is the essence of medical philanthropy. The social workers and the rehabilitationists working in the medical field are leading the way. How long can the acute general hospital limit its magnificent facilities to those alone who enjoy the benefit of a snap prognosis, as well as a snap diagnosis of a short-term illness in the admitting room? Let me state the case this way. There are three major reasons why an acute general hospital transfers patients suffering from non-acute illness to other institutions. The first is the progressive loss of interest in such patients by the medical staff. This is due to the fact that these patients are considered to be unproductive and therefore undesirable. The result is that the administration of the hospital is under pressure to get such patients out, regardless of the fact that there is no better facility in the world for their care at a time when their need for a hospital bed continues. This lack of clinical currency, as well as a lack of financial currency, can however be compensated for, first by financial subsidies to doctors to make up their losses from private practice, second laboratory facilities for the simulation of scientific talents and scientific interest in the problems of prolonged illness, and third, classrooms and conference rooms to stimulate teaching. Every bed in every hospital, no matter where it is located or by whom occupied, is potentially a teaching bed and potentially a research bed. The first reason for the transfer out of the acute general hospital of a non-acute patient will disappear, as the planner proceeds to apply these remedies and integrate functional and structural facilities for the combined benefits of both stages of illness. Now, the second reason for the transfer of patients suffering from prolonged illness out of an acute general hospital, is his progressively meagre financial contribution toward his care. But this reason for transfer, too, can be satisfactorily met by a subsidy to the hospital from one source or another. What the patient cannot contribute himself toward the cost of his care, must obviously be contributed either by philanthropy and or government. Once the medical needs of this kind of patient are established, he should be assigned to whatever facility can do him the most good, regardless of his financial disability. The third reason for transfer is the greater relative need of the available bed in the acute general hospital by the acutely sick patient. If the supply of beds is not equal to the demand, then obviously the most urgent must be dealt with in the order of their urgency. But this reason for transfer must disappear where supply can be made to meet the demand. Instead of establishing the additional required bed at a distance from the prime diagnostic and therapeutic facilities of the general hospital, it should be established within the hospital compounds. This can indeed be done much more inexpensively within the general hospital, since it avoids the expense of duplication and the handicap of distance to all concerns, unless, as I shall point out in a moment, the hospital can continue to furnish the required medical care for the patient in his own home. We shall still face the danger of neglect of the chronic sick in the presence of the acute, because of the transfer of interest, sympathy, and attention from the former to the latter. But this will in the end disappear. There is far more danger of neglect with the rest of the patient at a distance from the best of medical care, at a time when he may need it most. Besides, the tenacity and the stubbornness of prolonged illness must be matched equally by tenacity and stubbornness in the medical and social sciences, who are in turn supported by philanthropy and government. This can only be accomplished if the patient is kept before their eyes and not transferred to a spot where he can gaze at the landscape while waiting for medical crumbs to be thrown in his direction. These remarks are limited to the patient suffering from acute illness as well as to the patient suffering from prolonged illness. It is of the greatest importance not to confuse either of these with either the convalescent type of patient or the so-called custodial type. The convalescent patient is safely on the road to recovery from an acute or chronic illness and may or may not need the continued use of a hospital bed. The custodial type has made only a partial recovery and is left with a burnt-out disease, an irreversible scar or a residual handicap, which may or may not require a hospital bed, but for social reasons sometimes requires some kind of institutional care. It will readily be seen that the age of patient falls into one or other of these four categories, acute, chronic, convalescent or custodial. He is, besides, an attractive problem in preventive medicine and in social medicine. It is a mistake to think of his illnesses as coming under the single heading of any such social specialty as geriatrics. Whatever his illness, it belongs to the specialist who has been trained to deal with it. The geriatrician can only hope to be a case finder, a coordinator and a general practitioner to the aged, as the doctor often is to the young. Now let us bring these thoughts together and see the program for medical care as a whole. Until such time as we are able to build in accordance with this blueprint, we can at least elaborate a functional coordination which will lead by planned steps to the ultimate achievement of the program. To begin with, distinctions between acute and chronic should disappear, and the new criterion for the admission of a patient to the general hospital should be recognized and implemented, namely the need for a hospital bed. Regardless of any other consideration, this need for a bed should control admitting policy in hospitals. A patient who needs a hospital bed for the care of his condition, whether it is acute or chronic, should get it in one location, the general hospital. Broadly speaking, these needs, this criterion breaks down into four needs. First, a period of close observation in the highly concentrated diagnostic and therapeutic act where medicine is practiced intensively and scientifically on a group basis. Second, what is popularly known in the hospital as a workup. Third, some form of service like a major surgical operation. And fourth, some form of treatment which can only be administered on the hospital premises like deep radiotherapy. These are the four major criteria for admission to hospital beds. The poverty of the patient, or the desire of the doctor for the concentration of his patient in one area for his personal convenience, are in themselves invalid criteria for hospitalization, and represent a very expensive form of care, which can in fact often be avoided. When the patient does not need a hospital bed for his particular condition, or when he no longer needs a hospital bed, the same quality of care must be offered by the hospital to him in his own home, a home, if he cannot afford it. Or in a subtermediate type of institution, preferably, though not necessarily, on hospital grounds. Let us see how the factor of agency applies in such a combined and integrated intramural and extramural setup, where the hospital radiates scientific care directly to the patient if he is indigent, or in cooperation with his doctor if he is not. With the disappearance of the solid wall of the hospital, figuratively speaking, and the stationary and mobile service, by which most of the scientific facilities are centralized intramurally, the factor of urgency can be related by a simple formula to the factor of distance. The greater the urgency of the patient's condition, the less the distance between him and the central facilities of the hospital. The less the urgency of his condition, the greater the distance. To illustrate, the patient who is exsanguinated or in shock must remain within the hospital operating room till the agency of his condition is at least partially relieved. With progressive relief, he can be moved first to a recovery room alongside, then to a room on the same floor, to a room on the floor below or above, to a room in a pavilion alongside, across the street, and finally to his own home or to a substitute for his home. Hospital care accompanies him in every case, reducing its intensity to meet the requirements of medical necessity. Hospital quality is guaranteed to the patient at all times. He is as much a hospital patient in his own home as his former neighbor who remained on the hospital ward. The same social and scientific hierarchy stands God over him under the protecting wings of the hospital, and there is a free exchange of intramural and extramural patients on a priority basis. In a teaching hospital, the teaching material and the opportunity for teaching, thus provided in a combined program, are priceless. In a hospital fortunate enough to do scientific research, the patient is under observation and control under this combined plan for a period of time which is limited only by death. Such a complete, comprehensive, and continuous plan of medical care has no equals and no competitors in a democratic society. The hospital and its outpatient department representing the intramural services, and the home and the substitute for the home representing the extramural services, employed for the benefit of the indigent, the insured groups, and those who can afford care on an individual free basis, can do away with the inequities and the indecencies which are still being tolerated. In no other way can the taxpayer, philanthropist, medical man of science, and social worker generally, serve the sick and the near sick to better advantage. Select your patient, or the clinical condition from which he is suffering, and the doctor working in collaboration with the social worker can find for him in this combined plan of medical care, the place he needs most. And let me remind you at this point that when the problems of prolonged illness will be solved, we shall know that we have solved almost all of the problems of medical care. We shall doubtless find that we need less beds within hospital buildings than we thought we needed when we were engaged in expansive and expensive post-war planning only a few years ago, and also that we need more trained personnel combined with more scientific facilities in the hospitals that we now have. We need more financial subsidies, more teaching, and more scientific investigation in modernized buildings, which, till structural unification can be worked out, should have the benefit of functional unification. On the other hand, the housing expense should take into account the incontrovertible fact that better housing means less of a burden on the community for hospitalization. We have oversold the hospital to the public. Fortunately, the way back is inexpensive. With a cost of $2 per cubic foot of hospital construction, and with the present-day requirement of 10,000 cubic feet to serve every hospital bed, the capital investment is rapidly becoming unbearable when the facility is used indiscriminately. Moreover, the cost of maintenance has risen to unbearable heights on behalf of too many people who do not require such costly facilities. In circumstances like these, we must look to the inexpensive bed in the home of the patient and use it to his best advantage. How more important, however, than the prevailing high costs of medical care is the opportunity which extra-neural hospital service radiating into the patient's home affords for the individualization of care on a personal basis. The maintenance of the identity of the patient, his privacy, his self-respect, his freedom of movement unhampered by demanding neighbors who are strangers to each other in the hospital ward, and his presence in the bosom of his family in the natural environment of his home, improve his comfort and speed his recovery. The patient has indeed the pleasant illusion that the hospital exists for him alone, and that it stands ready as it indeed does to serve him under all circumstances. Let me remind you that with the best intentions in the world, the hospital, knowing the patient on average of only eight and a half days, and applying a mechanical routine in his care, cannot help adding insult to injury. It should not be offered as a resource unless there is no better method of dealing with the patient's problem. I might add that with an experience of almost three years in the field of comprehensive home care under hospital auspices, we found the cost of such care to our hospital on a comparable basis to be approximately one-fourth of the cost of ward care. Moreover, we have found that patients are more comfortable in their homes, and we confidently expect to prove by statistics that they get well quicker at home because of the added factor of personal comfort, which dominates the mental attitude of the patient and his family. It is our hope that hospitals generally will adopt the criteria for admission, which I have outlined here, and distribute patients in wards, in outpatient departments, in the homes of these patients, and in substitutes for these homes, under the protecting wings of these hospitals, to the end that every man, no matter what his age or how long the duration of his illness, will find readily available to him the exact facility which he requires to restore him to health. Thank you, Dr. Bluestone. Thank you, Dr. Bluestone. Our next speaker was to have been the Surgeon General of the United States, Dr. Leonard A. Shield. You'll all be sorry to learn that Dr. Shield was taken subtly ill yesterday. In this place there is a, come from Washington, Regional Medical Director of the United States Public Health Service, Dr. Henry Holley. Dr. Holley will discuss public health and older people. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to convey to you the sincere regret of Dr. Sheely on his inability not to be present. His illness is minor and will not, we hope, keep him out of circulation any length of time. Because I have just received Dr. Sheely's statement, I hope you'll pardon me for reading it instead of, uh, presenting it. Incidentally, this is the first time I've read it. It is a privilege to appear before this distinguished group and join any discussion of our aging population. There is no question that the increasing proportion of older people today presents the nation with its foremost problems in the conservation of human resources. Mr. Desmond has asked me to present some of the background on public health and our older people. This, of course, is only one facet of the very broad problem of your, that your committee is considering. But I hope that you will not think that I mean to subordinate the importance of other aspects of the problem when I say that public health is the key, if not the definitive solution, to the total problem of aging. I am sure that my colleagues from the Social Security Administration, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Veterans Administration, the hospitals, and other related fields will agree that plans for the employment, welfare services, housing, recreation, medical and hospital care for older people depend primarily upon the health status of this group. Of equal importance in our joint consideration is what public health does or could do to improve the health of all adults. The effects of the aging of the population on public health and vice versa have been described many times. Reports for the Bureau of Census show that the proportion of persons 45 years of age and over rose from 18% in 1900 to 27% in 1940. It is estimated that these age groups at present account for 29% and that by the year 2000, 40% of the population will be 45 years of age or over. One in every five persons is in the middle age group, 45 to 64 years. Fifty years from now, that ratio will be one in four. These shifts in the age composition of the population have been brought about largely by major decreases in mortality among children and young adults since 1900. The decline in the birth rates up until about ten years ago and restrictions on immigration have also contributed to the trend. Some of the students of demography have been concerned lest the proportion of aged persons impose a severe burden upon the economy of the nation, and particularly upon the young adults in producing age group. From the public health point of view, however, the aging of the population in itself is not an alarm signal. On the contrary, it testifies to advances made by public health and medical services in reducing the mortality among children and young people. There is one fact associated with the aging process, however, that is a clarion call to public health. The aging of the population is reflected in mortality statistics with a greater proportion of the total deaths now occurring at the older ages. Nearly 80%, 78% exactly, of all deaths occurring at the present time in the United States are among persons 45 years of age. 45 years of age and over. I might add, I hope that someday 100% of the deaths will occur at age 45 and over. The increase in the proportion of deaths among older people has accelerated during the past 30 years. In 1920, only 50% of all deaths occurred at the age of 45 and over. By far, the largest increases have occurred in the definitely old age factors. Whereas in 1920, persons 65 years of age or older accounted for only 29% of the deaths, today, practically half of the nation's mortality occurs among our older people. And again, I hope that someday 100% of all deaths will occur at age 85 and over. Public health is not only a humanitarian science, it is a practical science. The philosophy and practice of public health are to attack the causes which produce the highest proportion of deaths and disability in the population. As in the past, mortality statistics are the most accurate indices available to us for determining our major problems, both as to the causes of death and disability and as to the specific population groups exposed. Today, those data tell us that most of our major problems are the chronic and degenerative diseases and that mortality from these and other causes is constant groups. This is a challenge to all agencies and groups concerned with the well-being of our older people. About 45 years ago, public health workers heard another such challenge. The Bureau of the Census in 1904 published a report on the mortality and vital statistics recorded in the 1900 census. It showed that more than 30% of all deaths occurred among children under five years of age. Childhood and youth from birth to 25 years then bore about the same burden of mortality that our older people now bear. Moreover, the principal causes of death in these groups were infectious diseases. The answer to that challenge is written in the history of public health. The major causes of mortality were attacked vigorously in the preceding years. Control of infectious diseases, maternal and child health care, improved sanitation and nutrition, combined with advances in medical treatment of many diseases, have brought about a striking reduction in the general death rate and in the mortality from numerous specific causes. It is not possible to select a single year in which the impact of scientific advances begins to be reflected in our mortality data. To bring the accelerating trend into closer perspective, however, let us consider the past 30 years. The general death rate in the United States has declined from 1,300 per 100,000 population in 1920 to about 1,000 per 100,000 population at the present time. During that period, the death rate from nephritis, pneumonia and influenza, and tuberculosis have declined markedly in all age groups. However, the decline has not been so rapid in the age groups as it has been at the younger ages. The death rates from accidents, except for motor vehicle fatalities, have declined in all age groups, except among persons 75 years or older. The reduction among infants under 1 year, and among persons 65 to 74 years, however, are relatively slight. The rates from motor vehicle accidents have increased among all age groups, except among children of school age, 5 to 14 years. They don't drive cars, they only ride in them. The proportion of deaths from this cause among older people, however, has not increased substantially. The mortality experience due to heart diseases, cancers, blood vessel lesions of the brain, and diabetes, has not increased forcibly the growing problem of degenerative diseases among the older age groups 45 years and upwards. Since 1920, the death rate from heart diseases all ages has more than doubled. But in all age groups under 25 years, the rates have been amazingly reduced. The rate of decline has been fairly constant since 1925 for the age group 1 to 24. In the same period, death rates from every age group from 35 years and over, but most markedly at ages 55 and onwards. Because larger numbers of persons are surviving to advanced ages, we can assume that the death rate from heart diseases for the total population will continue to rise. As the infectious diseases, such as measles, scarlet fever, rheumatic fever, and syphilis, come more and more under control, we may also expect a greater concentration of heart disease deaths in the older age group. That's logical, isn't it? They have to die from something. The trend already is apparent. About 95% of the heart deaths at present occur at ages 45 and over, as compared with 84% 30 years ago. It has been estimated that by 1980, even with no increase in the death rate for heart disease in the older age group, the total death rate from heart diseases would be about 452 to 100,000 population, as compared with the present rate of about 321. On such a basis, heart ailments would then be responsible for about 1 third of all deaths in the United States. The situation with respect to heart disease, the cancer death rate for all ages has increased from 83 per 100,000 population in 1920 to about 133 at the present time. Except in infancy, the age-specific rates have risen in all age groups, with the major increases among persons 65 years of age and over. Although there has been some decline in death rates by age, drastically diseases of the brain have become the third leading cause of death in the United States. All but a very few deaths occur at ages 45 years and over. The decline in the death rate from diabetes mellitus, all ages, is due principally to reductions in the younger age group. The rate from this cause increased consistently at ages 55 to 74 between 1920 and 1940. Part of the increasing death rate in the older ages may be attributed to the prolongation of life of the young diabetic through the use of insulin. I am well aware that these data do not present the still larger problem of disabling illness among our older people. The conditions I have mentioned not only kill, they make invalids of millions. But we are all aware that many of the major crippling diseases do not at the same time produce high death rates. Arthritis, rheumatism, high blood pressure, other metabolic diseases, mental and nervous ailments, for example, are responsible for a large proportion of the disabilities that keep older people from leading a normal and productive life. That older people can be productive has been proved over and over again. More than one fourth of the 16 million women employed during World War II were over 45 years of age. The number of older men working during the war was even greater. If we are to deal effectively with our aging population, however, we must plan to conserve and employ the productive capacities of our older people to a far greater extent than in the war years. And we must plan to do so continuously and not as an expedient in emergencies. Work in a respected place in society are essential to healthful living as food and shelter. If the longer life which modern technology has fashioned for us is to be worth living, we must try to make it healthier, happier and more productive. This objective points up my earlier statement that public health is the key to the solution of our problems. Building on the experience of our health agencies, both official and voluntary, we must rapidly develop effective methods for combating the chronic diseases which are concentrated among older people. We must at the same time learn how to restore to their highest possible levels of health the millions of men and women who already are disabled by disease or premature old age. These goals can be attained if all groups who have anything to contribute join together with firm purpose to solve the many specific and difficult problems inherent in such a task. The task undoubtedly is formidable. It will draw upon practically all fields of medical and public health science. It will reach deeply into the social science. The fundamental solutions, of course, will come from scientific research. At present we have scant knowledge of the causes of some of the major chronic diseases such as arteriosclerosis, hypertension, arthritis, cancer, coronary occlusion, mental diseases and so on. We must eventually learn the causes. In the meantime, our ability to control the course of these conditions in the patient and even to reduce their incidence in the general population are much greater than is often realized. There are reasons for real optimism. The most recent dramatic proof of progress is the discovery of hormonal compounds such as cartazone and ACTH may be effective in the treatment of arthritis. Even more promising is the fact that these and other steroids provide new research tools for the investigation of many of the most baffling chronic maladies. Our ignorance today may disappear in the light of new knowledge tomorrow. Recalling progress in other chronic diseases, we feel additional ground for optimism. Malaria, one of the most devastating chronic infections, has almost disappeared from the United States. Syphilis and syphilis and syphilis and syphilis and syphilis and syphilis and syphilis and syphilis due to syphilis. Recent improvements in treatments now make it possible to control undulant fever as a chronic disease. In the past few years, the federal government, numerous voluntary agencies and private foundations have greatly augmented research into chronic diseases and physical medicine through aid to the nation's institutions and individual scientists. From this expansion of scientific studies, we can expect rapid advances in one or more phases of chronic disease control. How then shall we begin to apply the widening of existing knowledge of chronic diseases? How prepare for future advances? Control of many of the chronic diseases is a practical goal. The public health concept is to build a long-range program upon prevention, early diagnosis, adequate and continued treatment, and rehabilitation. As in the great campaigns against syphilis and syphilis, we can go out into the highways and byways and search for the undiscovered cases among the supposedly healthy people. We can not only search for the frank cases of disease, but for the conditions that predispose to chronic illness, or that are its precursors. The public health service, in cooperation with state and local health departments, is already experimenting with methods to extend mass case-finding techniques for several chronic ailments. In about 30 minutes, an individual passing through a screening line can be given a test x-ray, blood test, urine analysis, blood pressure determination, measurement of weight and height, and tests of vision and hearing. The results of such combined case-finding programs indicate that if 1,000 apparently well adults are given the battery of tests, over 900 instances of chronic disease or defects would be found. Tuberculosis, other diseases of the lungs, syphilis, diabetes, anemia, high blood pressure, obesity, and defects of vision and hearing can thus be screened out for diagnosis and corrective treatment. Many individuals will have multiple symptoms, especially in the older age group. Chronic diseases occur singly over long periods of time, usually without obvious signals to the patient. Epidemic diseases strike swiftly, affecting large numbers in short order. No community can or would ignore an epidemic. The multiple screening plan would serve to arouse both families and communities to active concern for the prevalence and threat of undetected, untreated chronic disease. On the preventive side, early treatment can greatly reduce the disability due to chronic disease and can prevent premature death. One of the immediate values of public health activity in this field would be the control of obesity. The relation of obesity to heart disease, hypertension, and other chronic diseases is well known. The death rate among persons 55 years of age and over who are 40% overweight is 65% higher than among people in the same age group who are of normal weight. Such data supports the need for developing an obesity control program. It is far more difficult for an obese person to maintain normal weight once he has achieved it than to bring his weight down to normal. Medical supervision may be needed for long periods of time. The public health service is supporting joint projects in obesity control with the New York City Health Department and the Boston, Massachusetts dispensary. The public health service is the most important part of the country. In the latter experiments, experiments are being conducted to determine whether psychological factors that adversely influence weight control can be overcome by weight therapy. Many new and improved tests are being developed. Mass case finding tests for heart disease and cancer will be added in the foreseeable future. If in the meantime our multiple screening methods are organized to operate smoothly, we will be in a position to detect and place under treatment many more adults who need preventive services, treatment, and rehabilitation. The quality of medical and hospital care for the chronically ill and for the aged can be improved most rapidly by organizing our existing community services effectively, even while we are trying to build the additional facilities which we need. The home care project developed, as described by Dr. Bluestone at Montefiore Hospital in New York City, is destined to be emulated in many parts of the country. The outstanding characteristics of this program are the planning and teamwork which assure the patient continuous supervision and expert care without the often fatal break between hospital service and discharge to the home or to a nursing or boarding institution. Rehabilitation. The fourth basis of chronic disease control is of equal importance with the other three. All services designed to care for the chronically ill and aged will contribute in some degree to the improvements in their health status. The advantages of a rehabilitation program to restore physical and mental functions are so obvious, however, that the provision of facilities and services for this purpose cannot be omitted from any sound plan for older people. Rehabilitation services can be integrated with a chronic disease control program despite the variation in organizations concerned. The citizens of every community possess qualities of leadership needed to plan and establish a system of integrated hospital, medical, public health, and rehabilitative services. We only need to find better ways of organizing and administering our services. Recent amendments to the National Hospital Survey and Construction Act make it possible for the public health service to aid state and local governments, public and private, non-profit institutions, in studies and demonstrations leading to coordinated systems of hospital care. Such research will involve the integration of large teaching hospitals, regional and small community hospitals. It will involve, in many instances, the relation of nursing and convalescent homes, outpatient services, housekeeping, visiting nurses, and medical, social services, and medical, social services to hospital care. In no other field is there a greater need for coordination of facilities and services than in the programs for the better health of older people. Public health workers, social welfare agencies, hospital administrators, the country over are increasingly aware of the need for action. Such official groups as this joint legislative committee illustrates the widening public interest and the deepening public concern. The problems are both perplexing and vast. I am confident that if all persons concerned with solving the problems of the aged will work together with firm purposes and selflessness, keeping the interest of the individual patient uppermost, we shall work out effective methods for ensuring better health to our older people. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Dr. Howard. And when you return to Washington, we appreciate your extending to Sergeant General Shealy our best wishes for his speedy and complete recovery. Our next speaker is Commissioner Ewing Clegg of the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor. Commissioner Clegg will discuss how long do our workers last. Chairman Desmond, members of the committee. Chairman Desmond, members of the committee. Chairman Desmond, members of the committee, I have been asked to appear before your committee today to present some facts on the length of working life of American workers. This is a highly important field of inquiry for those concerned with the economic and social problems of older workers in our modern economy. For by comparing the ages at which workers see gainful activity with their total life expectancy, we have a significant measure of the magnitude of the problem of old age dependency as it affects the individual worker. In order to make available basic data on this aspect of manpower utilization, the Bureau of Labor Statistics has taken the actuarial techniques of the conventional life insurance table and adapted them to the measurement of the working life. These tables show the ages at which men enter the labor force, the ages at which they stop working, either because of death or retirement, and the average number of years of working life remaining to them at given ages. These materials will be published in detail in the forthcoming Bureau study. I shall refer briefly here to a few of our major findings. I have brought along a chart which could make it easier for the audience to the committee to follow what I'm doing. I'll tell you, I wonder if I could ask a member of the committee staff if we could hang that chart on the edge of that door over there. I think nearly everybody could see it. No? The left wing doesn't fight this. Under 1940 conditions of mortality and of labor force participation, the average male worker, age 20, could expect to remain in the labor force, either working or seeking work, for an additional 41 and 3 tenths years, or to age 61. However, he could expect to live for an additional 46 and 8 tenths years, or approximately until age 67. So, on the average, he could anticipate a gap of five and a half years between his working lifespan and his total lifespan. And that is shown on the diagram there for 1940, the lower part being the working life, the red part being the period in retirement, and the total being the total length of life. I would like to stress two things about these figures. First, they are averages. They include men who die in the saddle, without any retirement, as well as men who are exposed to protected periods of retirement after they've stopped working. Under 1940 conditions, about half of all men workers could, in fact, expect to continue working until death or fatal illness. For the remainder, that is the other half, the period of retirement was much greater than this average of five and a half years. If we assume the life expectancy of retired men at any age to be the same as for all men, that is for those including those who work at that age, then the average lifespan in retirement for men who retire at ages 60 or later, their average period of span in retirement is approximately 11 years. in 1940. Now, second, as in the case of standard life insurance tables, the estimates of working life simply describe what would happen if an existing pattern of life was mortality and retirement prevailed throughout the life history of a generation of workers. these are not forecast, and they do not attempt to predict, for example, the conditions that a young man will in fact be exposed to in the course of the next four or five decades. New things may come up, for example, that may basically change all of the assumptions. Now, second, as in the case of standard life insurance tables, the estimates of working life simply describe what would happen if an existing pattern of mortality and retirement prevailed throughout the life history of a generation of workers. these are not forecast, and they do not attempt to predict, for example, the conditions that a young man will in fact be exposed to in the course of the next four or five decades. New things may come up, for example, that may basically change all of the assumptions under which such a table is based. What it does is to take the strata of conditions existing in a given period of time for this particular bar on this chart, the year 1940, and assume that those continued for a period of a generation of workers. Now, by comparing the pattern of working life of 1940 with that prevailing in other periods, we can gain valuable insight into the factors underlying the growth of the present problem of old age dependency. A century ago, or even more recently in our history, there was very little difference between a man's working lifespan and his total lifespan. Life expectancy was short, and only a small proportion of the population survived until the ages that are now considered conventional more retirement. Moreover, we were predominantly an agrarian economy. As an independent farmer or craftsman, the older worker was often in a position to continue in an active, productive role until the very end of life. For most workers, there was no sharp break in employment, but rather a tapering off. Retirement as we know it today was the exception rather than the rule. Let us consider the work-life pattern of men in 1900. This is the first bar on my chart for those who can see it. Since the comparable data for prior periods are not available. At the beginning of the century, a twenty-year-old man had an average life expectancy of forty-two and two-tenths years. That is, he lived until about sixty-two, or about five years shorter than we had achieved in 1940. His working life expectancy was thirty-nine and four-tenths years, only two years less than in 1940. Therefore, on the average, in 1900, he could expect slightly under three years outside the labor force, as compared to five and a half years in 1940. In other words, it came not very far from doubling that span of retirement between the years 1900 and 1940. From this simple comparison, we can diagnose two of the basic elements in the long-term economic problem of the ages. On the one hand, the advances of medical science enabled a growing proportion of the population to survive in the world age. On the other hand, employment opportunities did not keep pace with this increase in the aged population. There was a steady shift from agriculture and the small handicapped trades to large-scale urban industry, with its emphasis on speed, its rigid work schedules, and its dilution of skills. The older worker was no longer able to slow down gradually on the job, but at some stage, often at some fixed chronological age, such as sixty-five, he was forced to make a complete break with employment. As a result, there was a long-term downtrend in the average age of retirement, and a widening gap in the period of old age dependency. This basic problem was intensified by the Great Depression of the Thirty's. The burden of unemployment fell heavily on the older workers, who, once laid off, found it increasingly difficult to secure re-employment. By 1940, after a decade of severe unemployment, there were many older workers in their fifties and sixties, who were unable to work, and willing to work, but who, after prolonged unemployment, had given up the search. But with wartime mobilization and post-war prosperity came ample evidence that many of these older workers were, in fact, capable of productive employment. Large numbers re-entered the wartime labor force, while others postponed their retirement. This pattern, moreover, has continued into the post-war period, so that substantially greater numbers of older workers are now in the labor force than would be expected from pre-war trends. These changes have had a pronounced effect on the pattern of working life. As a result of further advances in medical science, and the general improvement in living standards, the twenty-year-old male worker, under nineteen hundred and forty-seven conditions, that's my third bar, could expect to live an additional forty-eight and two-tenths years, a gain of almost one and a half years over 1940. At the same time, his average work-life expectancy also increased by one and a half years, to forty-two point eight, almost forty-three, largely due to the increased proportions of older men in the late fifties and sixties, who were found in the post-war labor force. Thus, in contrast to the long-term trend from nineteen hundred to nineteen forty, there has been no further widening of the retirement gap during the present decade of the nineteen forty. Now, these comparisons suggest alternative patterns for future trends in work life span. Let's look into the future. A resumption of the pre-war trends, on the one hand, would mean a rapid widening of this period of retirement and corresponding dependency, and would add to the economic burden of old age dependency. Under this assumption, the gap between the total life expectancy and the working life expectancy, will widen to almost ten years for each person in nineteen seventy-five, compared to five and a half years in nineteen forty-seven, and three years in nineteen hundred. In other words, in seventy-five years, from nineteen hundred, it would have more than tripled, the period in which one would be out of the labor force, but still living. On the other hand, if we can maintain, if we can maintain, the current pattern of labor force participation, then the increase, that is the nineteen forty-seven, forty-eight, forty-nine, then the increase in life expectancy will be added mainly to the period of productive life, that will rise with our rising lives. Under these conditions, there will still be an increase of about one and a half years in the period of retirement anyway, due simply to the fact that under the improved mortality conditions expected in 1975, a larger proportion of young men are likely to survive to retirement age, as was just mentioned by the Surgeon General. It's clear from these comparisons, by the way, I think I would indicate my general feeling, that of the two projections to 1975, uh, current trend factors in our midst would indicate a great probability of alternative number one, rather than alternative number two. We should have to do, and shall have to do, some very spectacular things, in creating work opportunities for older people, over the decade of the 1950s and the 1960s, to achieve, uh, alternative number two. The trend is in the direction of alternative number one, a steady prolong, uh, widening of the gap, in which a person is still alive, but will be in retirement, and not able to make a living by work. It's clear from these comparisons that we're faced with a major and growing problem of old age dependency, even under relatively favorable assumptions. However, if we fall short of our full employment goals, and if we fail to provide adequate work opportunities to those older men and women who want to and are able to work, the problem will be greatly magnified. There will be mounting pressures for an expansion of old age benefits, and growing demands for a progressive broadening of the eligibility conditions for benefits. The increased span of enforced idleness in old age will place a heavy financial burden, not alone on the agents themselves, but on those in the labor force who will be contributing to their support, either directly as individuals, or by increased levies on their current earnings. There is, however, nothing inevitable about these long-term trends. I believe that you, as legislators, who are in a position to determine public policy, can do a great deal in conjunction with labor and management in promoting employment opportunities for the older workers and extending their working life span. As a guide to constructive action, you will, of course, need much more detailed information than I have thus far presented. The public health specialist has available detailed statistics on the incidence of disease and the causes of death to guide him in formulating an effective health program. In a similar fashion, we must know much more about the types of workers who at present are most vulnerable to premature and involuntary retirement, about their occupation and industry and their geographical location. We also need direct information as to the specific causes of their withdrawal from gainful activity. How many went out voluntarily and how many were pushed out against their will? At present, this area is still largely unexplored from a statistical viewpoint. On the basis of our present knowledge of the American labor market and of conditions in various occupations, it is possible, however, to focus on certain broad sectors of the labor force where the problem is likely to be most severe. First, we know that the labor force, that the working life span is shorter for the city worker than for the farmer. Secondly, in the non-agricultural sector of the economy, that is, in the cities generally, the period of retirement is likely to be longer for the wage or salaried employee than for the man working on his own account as a businessman or an independent profession. These latter groups, the self-employed person is usually able to taper off in the way that the farmer can in his work. In this broad area of non-agricultural employment, there are wide differences too. In the severity of the employment problem of older workers, there are many employees of mature age, sometimes like to say like myself, in executive supervisory and professional positions, whose experience and judgment render them increasingly useful to their firm. However, in the great mass of industrial and clerical jobs which bulk so large in our economy, the opposite is more frequently the case. For many of these workers, that is, the industrial and clerical, the major threat to a full, well-rounded working career is the gap between the individual's occupational working life and his total potential working life. That is to say, he could work, but does he get that occupational opportunity to work? I now have a third concept. His total life, his potential occupational life, his actual occupational life. The most obvious illustration in the case is in the case of those jobs which involve very high physical requirements. Professional athletes or airline pilots or other men engaged in hazardous or strenuous activities are required to be in perfect or near-perfect conditions. At some stage and well before the end of their normal working life, men in these jobs, even though a select group to begin with, are compelled to shift to a less exacting type of work. Those of you who read the sports pages will recall that there was a recent illustration here in New York City of a professional baseball player who found it necessary to retire because he's past the effective age of baseball playing at age 33. The situation of airline pilots, although extreme, may serve to point up the problems that may be encountered under these circumstances. Airline pilots as a group are predominantly young men, both because of the very stringent physical qualifications they must meet under the Civil Air regulations, and because of the very recent growth of the occupation. Thus, since 1940, the number of pilots employed by the scheduled airlines has tripled. Although there have, of course, been individual problems of superannuation for pilots, there has not yet been a mass problem. But within the coming decade or two, a large proportion of the present pilots will be in their forties and fifties. Clearly, many of them will no longer be able to meet the current physical standards. Where will they go? The type of ground jobs on the airlines for which they may qualify, or which they are likely to consider suitable, are necessarily limited. Retirement also is not a solution for them. The only alternative for many will be a completely new occupational orientation. Less spectacular, but of much wider significance, is the situation of many other workers, who find that if they grow older and slow down, they can no longer meet the pace of modern industry. Although they may still be capable of gainful employment. If they retain their jobs with their employer, this problem, though still a real one, may be dealt with in a quiet, unobtrusive fashion. Employers throughout the United States are dealing with this problem all the time. It's the man and the woman who stays in their present job with an employer with whom they have long service. In many industries, seniority gives the older worker a substantial measure of security. And apart from this form of protection, many employers have adopted policies to shift their older employees to lighter, less exacting duties. However, in our dynamic economy, there is the ever-present danger that these workers may get stranded in the middle of their working life. Periodic business recession, or simply the normal turnover of business establishments, may cast them into the role of a job seeker. Technological, or style changes, may depress their industries, or render their skills obsolete. Shifts in consumer demand, and the changing pattern of industrial location, may also have the same effect. Once the man past his forties, is forced into the labor market, his problem of adjustment may prove to be a difficult one. Many employers are reluctant to hire older workers, unless they have some special qualifications. The very seniority rules which protect him on the job work to his disadvantage when he's outside. And the prospect of starting all over again to a man of mature years and responsibilities is not a very appealing one. What can we do about this dilemma of the older worker? I will not presume here to attempt to spell out any detailed solution. From this brief review, it is apparent that we are dealing with a highly complex problem. It is a problem that we are approaching with all too meager, factual resources, although your committee has performed an outstanding service in this respect in assembling and evaluating the available data. It is moreover a problem which is growing in dimensions each year, and which will command the combined resources of the federal and state and local government, of labor and of management, and of many community groups, if it is to be dealt with effectively. In conclusion, I would like however to refer to one general course of action which merits your consideration. You are all familiar with the general theme of physical fitness. Institutions, such as life insurance companies particularly, have a strong and obvious interest in promoting improved health standards, proper diet, adequate exercise, and other hygienic measures, which will have the effect of extending the average life expectancy. you will have the opportunity lorsque you are charging, havingbleness to partie as much as preferences. You will have the tools that you may be saved if necessary to watch what you can learn from home and your of moving your bs as well. So, this would observe if you believe you have some questions, The community at large has an interest too in extending the period of working life. To this end, we should inaugurate a program of what I'd like to call vocational fitness, designed particularly to meet the needs of middle-aged workers. We must first, of course, determine what particular types of jobs are adapted to their background and abilities, that is, middle-aged workers' backgrounds and abilities, by careful studies of the job requirements, the conditions of entry, the productivity of older workers on these jobs, on which we know very little, and other pertinent information. We must at the same time improve our technical know-how in testing and counseling older workers. With this type of information, we may be in a position to conduct and encourage mature workers to undertake adult education and vocational retraining programs. Preferably, these programs should be conducted not when the worker is out of work, but when he is still on the job. In order to be effective, these programs must obtain the wholehearted cooperation of labor groups and management groups, and must be part of a broader campaign for the older workers. All this may seem like an ambitious project, but if it succeeds in extending the period of productive life, even for a fraction of our labor force, it will prove to be a sound investment. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.erton. Thank you. Today, tell me, the ability of legislation can only be helpful in certain particulars. I don't know, you mean,  legislation or some legislation requiring things to be done? Well, I don't know. I'm imploring. I'd like to know from you. Well, one type of legislation I could readily suggest, we ought to have a better retirement system, and, uh, since I used to be in the Social Security Board, I'll suggest we should have an improved Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance system. That would be one type of legislation that would take care of people who do move into retirement. But that won't take care of... But how would that answer the problem of giving some of these old people jobs? No, that would not. That is to provide for a more effective life after they're out. That does not meet the problem of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Department of the Committee and the speakers are very grateful to you for enjoying this physical discomfort. I have just learned that it may be possible for a larger room to be available for the afternoon session. It's not so easy to get that because it wasn't available. But I think it is. And our research director is looking into it now. If that is so... If that is so, I'll make the announcement later of the number of the room. And we'll meet there at 2.30 as I hope we can. Our next speaker is Commissioner Marcus D. Kogel of the Department of Hospitals of New York City. Commissioner Kogel will discuss hospitals and our elderly. Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, I do hope that the enthusiastic remarks of Dr. Crampton, which were made very early in this session, won't cause a run on our hospitals of people who would like to be de-aged. We haven't established these stations as yet. Neither have we developed those intriguing multivitamin and antibiotic cocktails with a dash of cortisone. Perhaps in the future we'll have something like that. We may even be able to add an automatic blade to it so it can do any surgery that might have to be done inside the body. In fact, when these de-aging stations are set up, I'll probably be the first client. I'm very glad that Senator Desmond invited me here today to speak on hospitals and the elderly. It not only gives me the chance to get some convictions of longstanding off my chest, but it offers also the opportunity to say a word in appreciation of the great work being done by the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on the Problems of the Aging. This committee has taken the leadership in focusing attention on this urgent problem, and its contributions and findings will serve as a blueprint for future action. Hospitals are places for the congregate care of the sick, whether the illness be acute or chronic, and the victim of disease, young or old. However, the two extremes of age are often forced upon hospitals, even though no disease is present. The hospitalization of the well baby, because society has failed to provide a more suitable shelter for the infant, or of the elderly for no better reason, constitutes an imposition upon our hospitals of a great burden, aside from the potential and actual damage to the innocent recipients of our charity by a very intimate association with disease and disability. The problem of the child, however, is a minor one compared to the growing problem of the aged. In dealing with this situation, we must develop some fundamental concepts. One of these is that general hospital facilities should be used for the elderly, requiring active treatment of either an acute or chronic illness, and that some other type of accommodation is needed for the infirm aged, for the physically handicapped aged, or for the oldsters who are well and homeless. We can shout this principle from the rooftops, but as long as those other types of accommodations are not provided, the backlog of patients unsuited for active hospital care continue to tie up costly hospital beds and services. Since the time here is limited, I will discuss in broad terms the problems of the elderly in a general hospital, in a chronic disease wing of a general hospital, in a special hospital, and touch very briefly on nursing homes. Our adult general hospital population has undergone a shift in age distribution in the direction of the older age groups. This is not unexpected when one considers the increase in the percentage distribution of the elderly in the general population of the city of New York. The 1948 population estimate assumes a total of one-half million people, 65 years of age and over, which is more than double what it was in 1930. Older people get sick more often and stay sick for longer periods. As Ginsburg so aptly puts it, by lengthening the average span of life, we have traded a lessened mortality in the earlier years for an increased morbidity in the aged. Our general hospitals do not take kindly to the elderly sick. They have been geared to the dramatic illness, the crisis, the hectic flush, and the high fever. Our whole philosophy is one of youth and glamour and plenty. The agitation brings apathy and garrulousness, irreversible damage and incontinence. None of this is pleasant. Our reorientation must begin in the schools of medicine and in the schools of nursing, and we must find some means to awaken the present generation of practitioners to a greater interest in a more dynamic approach to the problems of the aged sick. An important reason for the disinclination of the general hospital to treat the oldster is that there is often the strong possibility that the bed will be tied up indefinitely. Delays are frequent in discharging elderly people after they have received the maximum benefit from hospitalization. Often there is unwillingness on the part of the patient to exchange the sheltered environment of the hospital for the discomforts of a home long since preempted of affection or warmth. Then there is the resistance on the part of the family to the return of the aged one to the family heart. In a city such as ours, with restricted accommodations and every cubic foot of space worth its weight in gold and filial devotion at a low, the burden of care of the aged at home may become intolerable. There is one segment of the elderly sick whose reception in our general hospitals is downright hostile. General hospitals is downright hostile. I have reference to the senile psychotic. There is no hiding place for this unfortunate individual. And irrespective of the physical condition, he is summarily relegated to a facility for the care of the insane. Many mental conditions of the aged are transitory, but the disturbance must be brief indeed if the patient is to escape the stigma of commitment to a state institution. I do not propose that the municipality assume the responsibility for the patients with personality disintegrations and psychoses which have every appearance of being permanent. We must, however, develop a more compassionate approach to the short-lived episodes of confusion and disorientation, so often a concomitant of medical and surgical ailments of the elderly. Now what rearrangement is necessary so that the general hospital may adapt itself to provide properly and economically for the steadily increasing number of aged patients? One, it should develop a chronic disease wing or unit where aged patients can be transferred as soon as the acute episode of the illness is over and prior to transfer to home care or discharge to home, to a nursing home, or to a custodial institution. The close relationship of such a wing to the general hospital will make readily available all of the hospital services, and good care can be furnished to patients at a cost much below that in the acute section of the hospital. Number two, it should provide a small suite of soundproof rooms and ancillary facilities for the temporary care of the non-custodial psychotic patient. Number three, the general hospital must organize a dynamic program of rehabilitation which in the aged will be geared to redevelop in the patient the ability to meet the daily demands of living and to restore him to the greatest degree of usefulness and self-sufficiency. Idleness and inactivity encourage deterioration and a breaking down of morale. Therefore, if planned activities and interests are available, mental and physical deterioration is less progressive. It is well for these patients to know that while they are still ill, there is a definite plan for their rehabilitation, a program of activities within their area of accomplishments which will help them to reestablish the normal pattern of living and restore feelings of self-confidence and self-respect. So, an active home care program must be established. The extension of hospital care into the home is no longer in the experimental stage or on a demonstration basis. The highly successful program of the Department of Hospitals and the splendid pioneering efforts of the Montefiore Hospital in New York have established home care as a necessary tool in any system of comprehensive hospital care. Then, the general hospital must strengthen its services for the care of the ambulatory patients and make it possible for the ambulant agents to receive prompt attention and good care in the outpatient department. In order to ensure the maximum utilization of outpatient services, it may be necessary to develop a voluntary motor call and the transport of the elderly to and from their homes. Thought will have to be given to eliminate the architectural barriers which render access to clinic services a nightmare to the disabled and the infirm. Above all, the bustle and the hurry and the attitude of disinterest and irritation will have to be replaced and the elderly patient may feel that he is wanted and that the hospital services are there to benefit him. Whatever the initial outplay for these changes, the end results will reflect great savings. The bottlenecks which tie up active hospital beds within active patients, the mental and physical deterioration of the neglected elderly patients, all these will cease. Unfortunately, however, the problem of hospitals and the elderly is not solved with the reorganization and modification of the services in general hospitals. Today, the patient over 65 makes up almost 7% of the population of New York City. By 1960, he is expected to account for over 9% of the total population and by 1980, he'll make up more than 11% of the total population. To supplement the chronic disease services of a general hospital, we still need in a city such as ours a hospital of the type of the Burt Eskola Memorial Hospital. This 2,000 bed facility, now going up at the north end of Welfare Island, will provide the outlet for the chronic disease units of the general hospitals. It will take the bedridden, chronically ill and aged patients, the handicapped and the infirm for whom other arrangements cannot be made. This will by no means be considered the end of the line, for the most active rehabilitation program will be developed. Care will be individualized and every effort will be made to get the patients out of bed, to take care of themselves and to restore self-confidence and some measure of independence. Affiliation of the hospital with a medical school will assure a continuation of professional interest and the availability of even the most highly specialized medical services. Experience has taught us that it is unwise to isolate a hospital of this type geographically from the professional skills that are required to service it. In fact, the closer this type of hospital is to a general hospital, the better to all concerned, because it is then possible to integrate the services with a general hospital and to arrange for the rotation of the house and resident staffs through this unit. To maintain the interest of the professional staffs, it is imperative to provide incentives in the form of research facilities. This not only attracts good men to the hospital, but pays valuable dividends far out of all proportion to the small investment in space and equipment. At the Burdesk Hall and Memorial Hospital, we not only failed to do this, but we were lax in planning adequate x-ray and laboratory services. These deficiencies will be remedied. Actually, it was no one's fault. Our thinking hadn't crystallized to the point where we were sufficiently sure of ourselves. We know now that the apathetic era of care for the chronically ill belongs to a bygone day, and that we have now entered a new age where the most hopeless patient is approached in the spirit of helpfulness, with an enthusiasm and zeal that transcends all difficulties. In a city the size of ours, there is room for still another type of hospital, in which the elderly make up a considerable proportion of its population. I have reference to a research center in chronic diseases of the type of the Goldwater Memorial Hospital. This was planned as the laboratory where selected patients and selected diseases would be studied, so that some light could be shed on the aging process and the long-term illnesses which plague our people. Here new techniques would be developed in treatment, and specialists and technical personnel would be trained to take their place on the staffs of other hospitals, to practice and teach what they had learned. Unfortunately, the numbers of chronically ill, aged and infirm, grew rapidly to such large proportions that in no time they choked the adult services of our general hospitals and flowed over and inundated all of our homes and units designed for their care, including the Goldwater Memorial Hospital. As a consequence, the research activities of the Goldwater Memorial Hospital are limited, and this great hospital will not be able to fully carry out its purpose until our construction and modernization program has been considerably advanced. In spite of all handicaps, however, the Goldwater Memorial Hospital has made many significant and fundamental contributions. Full justice cannot be done to the subject of hospitals and our elderly without some discussion of the special needs of the aged and what modifications are required in the hospital environment to meet those needs. The aged require a familiar, pleasant and home-like environment with more than the usual physical comforts and protection from accidents and special psychological and emotional supports. Physical comfort includes such items as warmth, good lighting, an adequate place for personal possession, easily accessible toilets and bathroom facilities, privacy through small units, quiet through soundproof spaces, comfortable furniture, suitable clothing, between meals, snacks, if and when desired, a magnifying glass and hundreds of other little things which make for comfort and which are of paramount importance to the elderly. Protection from accidents is particularly important in this group, as older bones are more brittle, older eyes are less keen, and the recuperative powers of older bodies are less responsive. Protection from accidents implies attention to well-lighted stairways and corridors, sturdy railings and good repair, ramps where possible instead of stairs, and where there are stairs they must be free from impediments. Non-skid floors, rubber mats in the bathroom for use in the bottom of the tub to prevent slipping, thermostatically controlled water, plumbing in good repair, handrails and elevated rests and bathtubs to eliminate the possibility of slipping and to getting in and out of the tub to make getting in and out of the tub less taxing. Electrical equipment must be in good repair, wires completely insulated, and sturdy plugs and switches conveniently placed to eliminate the need of searching for them in the dark, and low beds for the ambulatory patient to prevent falls. Furniture in the patient unit should not be too hard, not too soft, not too high, and not too low. It should be anchored as the elderly patient is apt to lean against beds, tables and chairs, and loses balance. Armchairs should be provided. Wheelchairs must be equipped with special foot pedals. Mechanical devices facilitate heavy lifting, lifting heavy and helpless patients from their beds and prevent injury to our workers. Beds equipped with protective sides prevent falls from beds. Doors must be sufficiently wide to admit wheelchairs and to permit the easy transportation of patients. Furniture should not be moved after the older person retires, so that if he awakens during the night he will not be unfamiliar with the arrangement. Night lights eliminate the confusion caused by darkness. All of these are means of protecting the elderly against accidents. The older person must be encouraged to give thought and attention to items of personal hygiene. Good planning of the bathroom and toilet facilities will help the Ulster take better care of his personal needs. Bathrooms should be equipped with movable shower sprays, and cubicles should be sufficiently wide to permit the entrance of wheelchairs. I do not know the solution to the bathtub situation except to eliminate bathtubs. However, we do need bathtubs to the appropriate height for the ambulatory patient, at stretcher height for the bed patient. We have to have low tubs for arthritics so that they can step into them without danger. We have to have portable tubs for patients who can't be wheeled to the bathroom and so on. Someday, somebody will actually take the bull by the horn and eliminate all bathtubs. The toilet stalls must be wide enough for wheelchairs and handrails must be provided so that the patient can support himself. Commode-like toilet seats are necessary. Call bells should be provided in all areas, and patients must be taught their function. We often put all this intricate equipment in and never think of telling the patient how it's to be used. Wash basins and mirrors should be placed at a convenient height to enable wheelchair patients to use them comfortably. The elderly patient offers a challenge to the dietician who has advanced to the point where she's ready to revise the old concepts and discard the practice of limiting their diet to bread, tea, and applesauce, which has been too long a widespread and common procedure. It is essential that the nutritional elements of an adequate diet be supplied in generous amounts and in a form which can be masticated and digested by the elderly person. We in the Department of Hospitals have in recent years accepted this challenge and completely revised the feeding program in the units devoted to the care of this group. The menus were greatly expanded to ensure a high nutritional value, a greater variety of foods was provided, and the preparation of many foodstuffs elaborated. Specific food increases included a greater allowance of milk, ice cream, and other dairy products, more citrus fruits in a form suitable for the aged, a wider variety of frozen and fresh fruits and vegetables, larger allowances of meat, poultry, and fish, and a wider selection of desserts and food adjuncts. The size of the portions was somewhat reduced in order to allow for the patient's capacity. Too much emphasis cannot be placed on the improvement of the food's appearance, the adjustment of tableware and cutlery to the handling abilities of the elderly person, and the decor of the dining area. Certain structural arrangements must be made for the feeding areas. Gently sloping ramps leading into the dining rooms, or small dining rooms close to the patient's bed location, wide aisles between tables and special sturdy construction of chairs and tables. Table service is usually the wisest choice for elderly people, but where the psychological aspect of self-help is important, partial cafeteria service can be effective therapy. In hospitals where the stay of the chronically ill of the elderly is prolonged and the number to be cared for is great, beauty shops must be provided for the ladies and barber shops for the men. The ladies also need readily accessible to them a place to wash intimate personal things. There is great need among the elderly patients for recreational and social activities, and they should be given the opportunity for religious observance. I have carefully steered clear in my discussion of the public homes for the aged and of the nursing homes. However, both these facilities are essential elements in a program for the elderly. The large nursing home, in fact, often approaches closest to the hospital, and our public homes frequently become filled with sick aged who overflow in their infirmaries and should be in hospitals. On the other hand, the chronic disease service of a general hospital or the chronic disease hospitals have many patients who require only shelter and affection. The nursing homes can stand considerable improvement in the quality of care they render, and this is an area in which we hope to exert some influence in the future. We are very anxious to develop a type of association which will permit us to transfer to the nursing home from the hospital patients suitable for home care, but who do not have a proper home. Today, our home care program is limited to patients where the home environment is suitable for the extramural care. The hospital care of the aged is merely one facet of a very large problem. The major effort of the community should be to keep the aged at home as long as they can be kept there with comfort and safety. Serious thought should be given towards the provision of dwelling units and community services designed especially to make this possible, and every assistance should be rendered to simplify the extension of hospital care into the home when this becomes necessary. We will never have enough hospital beds for the aged sick or public homes for the homeless aged if the individual permits himself to be easily swayed to surrender to the community, the very personal responsibility which is his for the care of his aged and infirm. No public home can ever take the place of the family heart, and no hospital bed can ever compete for comfort and security with the bed in one's own home. Thank you. Thank you very much, Commissioner Colbert. I'm terribly sorry to have to tell you that that report about a larger room being available was an error. We checked up on it. It's the same size as this room. So, uh, during the recess, however, from 1 to 2.30, and again, I would say that this committee, well, once 2.30 means 2.30 to us, and we're going to start just as promptly at 2.30 as we started at 10 o'clock this morning. Uh, during the recess, this room will be thoroughly ventilated. I'll try to do the best I can to make you as comfortable as possible. The speakers, however, can't help but be thrilled at such an extraordinary attendance. Our next speaker is Dr. G.M. Davidson, psychiatrist of the Manhattan State Hospital of Ward's Island, New York City. Dr. G.M. Davidson will discuss, uh, the psychiatrist looks at the aging. And may I again remind him and other speakers that that's not a public address system. That's a, that's a wire recording device. So please speak, doctor, as loud as you reasonably can. Ladies and gentlemen, I feel indebted to Senator Desmond for the invitation to speak to you. I feel indebted to Senator Desmond for the invitation to speak to you. on this most urgent problem of aging. You have undoubtedly already heard a lot, and will continue to hear from various people. And I feel indebted to Senator Desmond for the invitation to speak to you on this most urgent problem of aging. You have undoubtedly already heard a lot, and will continue to hear from various sources the reasons for the urgency. It will suffice for me as a medical man to call your attention to this quiteening increase in degenerative diseases of advanced age, which is noted along with the success of science in prolonging man's life. Needless to say, that a long life without health is not only an individual, but a national tragedy. Therefore, no effort is too costly to remedy the situation. The problem of aging is very complex, has many aspects and issues, inclusive of the psychiatry. The latter crosses my path, and I am pleased of the opportunity to share with you certain views on the subject as my experience reflects it. The title of my talk may unfold itself in a variety of topics of more concrete nature, such as mental hygiene of the aging, emotional problems of aging, or even alcoholism of aging, and so forth. However, I prefer to talk to you in a broader psychiatric sense, referable to an approach of basic evaluation of the aging process, which puts the accent on prevention. To begin with, I'd like to point out to you certain fallacies of thought, which in my opinion, handicap progress due to our traditional materialistic education. We are looking for a cause and effect relationship in any problem we may be interested in. This attitude, however, has proven inadequate in its application towards problems pertaining to human nature. In fact, biology has definitely established that what may be considered the cause of a condition is often not a cause at all, and that causes are multiple. To illustrate, there is an organic brain disease known as a Korsakov disease, of which most characteristic sign clinically is a certain type of amnesia. The latter was always considered due to the pathology of the brain of such subjects. However, I was able to show that the amnesia could be lifted, in some cases by means of sodium amytal, which is a drug which may be injected, and that in such instances it was possible to ascertain that the amnesia is essentially psychogenetic in origin. The organic implications belonging to other factors in the problem as a whole. Another difficulty in our approach towards problems related to manifestation of human nature is our ignorance regarding the body-mind relationship. However, I must say here that the body is highly protective of the mind. We are still under the spell of the old dualism, which makes, to quote one Hornboskel, the sound and sight, inner and outer, body and soul, God and the word, to fall apart. Perhaps the difficulty will be best illustrated if I should quote to you Alice in Wonderland. As you recall, Alice was very much annoyed with the suddenly vanishing and reappearing cat, and asked him to stop the practice. The cat complied, vanishing this time slowly, beginning with its tail and ending with a grin, which remained for some time after the rest was gone. Well, I have often seen a cat without a grin, thought Alice, but a grin without a cat is the most curious thing I ever saw in my life. However, it isn't only Alice that might be surprised by such phenomena. Many educated people, inclusive of some medical men, for instance, still identify the mind with the brain, and cannot see the mind without the brain. In other words, they insist that the grin and the cat can be only seen together. The latter logic is definitely not logical clinically. For instance, we know from experiments that visual image, that a visual image, may outlast the stimulus that provoke the image. We know that mental growth continues after physical growth ceases. We know that a mental reaction, which may be ushered in by a physical cause, may continue after the physical cause subsided. It should be, therefore, the ambition of the psychiatrist to be able to reach ultimate conclusion of physical changes in the organism on the basis of psychological symptoms. This falls in line with the experience of Alice in Wonderland. If so, how can we scientifically outline the quoted allegory? It is in this way. We identify the individual in space and time as the total personality, which means to regard him as a whole, inclusive of his past and his environment. The total personality is composed of a multitude of parts, which are trained by experience to work in harmony for the benefit of the totality. Depending upon the harmony achieved and unity achieved, it is compensatory ability for incurred damages. There may be all degrees of functioning up to a point of maximum efficiency. Disharmony or unrepair damage may result in clumsiness in its mild expression, failure in more pronounced state, and disaster in severe expression. In search to measure the totality in action, I applied Sherrington's view of the coordinating neurological mechanism, which he called the final common path. My studies have convinced me, as discussed elsewhere, that there is a common final path of the total personality, which I identified with affectivity. This word, affectivity, according to a standard dictionary, means to aspire, to aim, bent of mind, and is used synonymously with emotionality. It is in harmony with the view that the mental and the physical are aspects of one and the same, the totality, but which are measured by different methods. Affectivity is regarded as the evolutionary outcome of the original irritability of the self, which in turn may be identified as the mental component of the self. Affectivity is the measure of the bodily power to absorb and reflect stimuli. This approach suggests that the release of personality disorder is caused by factors among which I distinguish. First, factors belonging to the evolution and integration of the total personality, and is expressed in a disorder of total affectivity and its constituents, such as the social, sexual, and other impulses. A disorder which considers in turn the biological background, or what is known as a mental conflict. Second, factors belonging to maintenance of equilibrium, and rooted in the system of defense of the total personality, for instance, physically impairment of immunity, or equilibrium, called technically homeostasis, or mentally impairment of mechanisms of defense, such as the mechanism of repression, compensation, and so forth. And third, precipitating and aggravating factors, emotional, traumatic, and otherwise, which overcharge our capacity to react or participate in dissolution of the total personality. With a foregoing mind, and with emphasis on the fact that psychopathology may give clues of changes in the organism, I try to isolate certain phenomena which could be applicable in a longitudinal way to manifestation of aging. Here comes the question, what do we understand under aging, and when does aging begin? In answer, some see aging as beginning with conception and terminating in death, which, while correct in a philosophical sense, is incorrect clinically, since it confuses at some phases of life growth with decline. Another opinion is that aging begins sometimes about middle age. This is also incorrect, for the reason that chronological age does not coincide with physiological and psychological. And when does middle age set in? Is another question. I would think that aging is a phase in the life process of the individual which starts sometimes after maturity is reached. According to a standard dictionary, maturity is a process brought about by completion of growth and development for any function appropriate to its kind. According to my investigation, aging begins at about the end of the third and the beginning of the fourth decade of the life of the individual, and is manifested by a set of psychological phenomena. It is at this time that the individual may cast a glance into the future and the unknown. He develops insecurity, to which he reacts with an anxiety state. The idea of death may cross this mind with all its disquiet, and it may cause other symptoms to follow. The mentioned phenomena may be mild in their expression or more severe, depending upon the original emotional constellation of the individual. I have discussed the subject elsewhere. For those who are very concrete in their attitude, and those with the burden with the problem of cause and effect relationship, the foregoing conclusion and the following discussion will be difficult to accept. However, as far as I am concerned, I believe that the mentioned symptoms and similar ones which may be observed at middle life or advanced age are essentially of the same origin. I mean to say that certain mental manifestations associated with involution or otherwise called change of life or be observed in a certain type of senile psychosis known as agitated depression, as well as those similar symptoms which occur in agitated depression at any age differ only in their strength of expression, which is due essentially to the psychology and physiology of respective age. For instance, the emotional state of involution melancholia, which is a form of depression or time of change of life, in addition to the aspect of anxiety, has an admixture of remorse and nostalgia. The nuclear motive of these mental states is the fear of death and the unknown, and in so many instances the fear of life, which in turn is the result of other psychodynamics of the total personality. This may also apply to other mental states with due consideration to the individuality of the case. If this view is correct, then there is hope that the individual may be spared these incapacitating states. It has been established that in the mentioned neurosis and psychosis the subjects are of a certain makeup, which is marked by traits of over-sensitivity, scrupulosity, over-orderliness, stinginess, and so forth. The traits are considered a reaction formation due to faulty early socialization. Thus, it may be avoided by proper education. Another point I would like to discuss is the question of cerebral arterial sclerosis, which are otherwise hardening of the arteries, which they encounter in persons of advanced age. We do not know exactly what cerebral arterial sclerosis is due to, but we do know that the process is selective. It used to be said that the man is as old as his arteries. This is not quite true. However, it may be said that arterial sclerosis may be related, among other things, to the individual's ability to disperse cholesterol, which is a fatty acid. This would refer to hormonal and dietary factors, as well as to a disturbance in function of a certain cellular system in our organism known as the reticular endothelial system. The diagnosis of cerebral arterial sclerosis is often difficult to make unless there are pronounced focal symptoms, and other organic conditions are excluded. However, the diagnosis of fairly cerebral arterial sclerosis may be made on mental lines. A particular irritability and emotional instability may be an early sign. These emotional states are undoubtedly an unconscious reaction to failures of the individual to his aging. Depressive states may be rooted in involutional changes, which may go on at the same time. Acute vascular condition may be suspected from manifestation of acute disturbances in orientation and memory. The more severe disturbances of memory or language are due to impairment of the symbolic formulation of thought, which has an emotional as well as a neurological aspect. As far as cerebral arterial sclerosis dementias are concerned, we have no adequate tests to measure them. In some respects, they are similar to other dementias, such as senile ones, which we shall discuss presently. Generally speaking, studies of the brains of cerebral arterial sclerosis with subjects do not produce definite evidence to account for the clinical manifestations. No further discussion in assigned 1966, language Valencia inirda-landet The more serious  sorrows are important and stationary apologise in Dogs dev sido needed to ensure new flaws in brown Zhang. The sn quies of CJ,  Emperorse Skarps in poorly-integrated and herbal Father in his imprescindible I believe that the studies on the subject do not reveal any factors which could be considered solely due to aging. It refers rather to factors worseny upon the life process in general. Therefore, we may hope also here that better knowledge of the nature of arteriosclerosis will help in preventing of the difficulties which arise from these acquired conditions. I'd like to discuss briefly still another point which is as if a pathological appendix of aging and which is spoken of as senility. The latter, in its height of expression, is known as senile psychosis. I have already mentioned one type of such psychosis, the agitated and depressed type. There are other types which are marked, for instance, by ideas of persecution or known as the paranoid type or the confused type or one type which is known as simple deterioration. Approached from the angle of the final common path, we identify the situation with dissolution of emotionality. In examining the various types of senile psychosis, we come to the conclusion that the respective type of reaction is rooted in the potentialities of the personality of the individual. For instance, a person with a poor system of defense, and by that I mean both physical and mental defenses will show simple deterioration. A well-equipped person will develop trends which in turn help him to be better preserved. In the confused states, we have a toxic factor and so forth. Regarding intelligence in the senile cases, I wish to repeat that we have no adequate test to measure it. It is to be noted that intelligence seems to improve after treatment of the subject with vitamins B and C. Concerning memory, I like to say that a loss of the latter may occur at any time during life. It ought to be noted that... It ought to be noted that memory is only important as an instrument of adjustment. To function properly, there must be integration of new with old memories. This integration is weakened in the ages for the reason of dissolution of emotionality. It is the emotional link which is essential for integration of new and old memories to be compared with the loss of memory for our infantile experiences. Studies of senile brains does not produce satisfactory evidence to explain the clinical manifestations. In fact, there is no correlation between the findings of the brain and clinical phenomena. Therefore, we may assume that the present state of our knowledge that there is no specific causes for the process of aging. The causes are multiple. It is the people themselves, their mode of life, with all the traumatic influences that is responsible for the pathological state of aging. The release of the condition being in harmony with the outline three groups of factors responsible for the release of any personality disorder as discussed. In summing up, I would like to emphasize the following psychiatric observations. First, we are all ill-prepared in meeting our aging. In fact, we meet aging grudgingly and react to its perception with anxiety, which is an alarm signal of the system of defense. In pronounced instances, we react with morbidity. Two, normal aging is marked by a decline of function, which is taken care of ordinarily by the system of defense of the personality in both its physical and mental aspects, as seen from measurement of biological time and mental manifestations. Three, in pathological aging, there is an abnormal weakening of the system of defense, which reaches its height of expression in dissolution of affectivity, conditions which require most urgent study. This can be seen from the workings of the various types of senile psychosis with all its negative compensations. Fourth, the system of defense of the personality may be vulnerable on more than one score. There may be hereditary and constitutional factors responsible yet unknown. We do know, however, that infectious, traumatic, and emotional factors play an important role. Therefore, we may conclude that proper education, proper application of physical and mental hygiene, guided by a sound philosophy of life, which shall provide the individual with social, economic, sexual, and emotional security, will help him and society to avoid the calamities of aging as observed in our times. Finally, it must be pointed out that the road of achievement of normal aging for all is a long and torny one. Our knowledge of the problem is very meager. The time is short, and only a vigorous research program may help. For research, two elements are needed, ideas and financial backing. Fortunately, there is abundance of both in this country. Therefore, we may look with confidence in the future. But we have to intensify our effort as it is made already. Thank you. Thank you. All very much advice to you, Dr. Davidson. Our next speaker is Mr. Harry Levine, Administrator of Special Services for the Agents of the New York City Welfare Department. Mr. Levine will discuss the need for state aid to recreation centers for the agents. Senator, members of the committee, and co-workers and friends, I should like to pay tribute to the splendid achievements of the Desmond Committee. In the very brief period in which it has functioned, it has made a most important contribution to the field of old age. Through its published material and its ability to reach the community, it is making the leaders in many fields and the community itself aware of the problem and the possibilities of a concrete, practical program. I believe it is making a lasting contribution to the 16 million Americans past 60. Now, much of this morning's session has been devoted to almost a limited part of the older person in our community, to the sick, to the mentally disturbed person, to the people who are being sort of left out of the run of things. I should like to emphasize the importance of the large number of older people who neither enter a mental hospital or a community or a hospital itself. Since time immemorial, man has connected longevity, man has counted longevity amongst the blessings, particularly when few achieved it. Now that we have achieved the three score and ten years for the many, those who have achieved it doubt its blessings. There are, however, some blessings today that are obvious. For example, man at 60 or 65 is a much different person from the man of 60 or 65 of the 1800s and the 1900s. He is a much younger person. He is a much healthier and stronger and more dynamic individual. In the past, if he managed to reach 65, he was a tired old man. Today at 65, a person has an interest in and a zest for living, a need to be active and to participate. And why not? For the age of 60, he has at least 16 more years of life expectancy. And at the age of 65, he has 13 more years of life expectancy. Even at 70, he has at least 10 more years. If you add, and at times I have taken some slight view that is a little different from my friend, Dr. Clay, but if you add the five or ten years of unemployment, that is the lot of many older people before they reach 60 or 65, you have another lifetime to account for. Actually, that lifetime cannot be accounted for. It is generally wasted. It makes little contribution to the family and to the community, and much less to the older person. It is difficult to accept the fact that the lifetime of millions of people in the United States is wasted. But what is even more difficult to accept is that from these millions, with little to do, with no positive interest, unwanted, feeling themselves a burden, deterioration and illness becomes their daily experience. And for many, many thousands, as you've heard today, mental hospitals becomes an unnecessary, undeserved, inhuman and bitter ending. I just had occasion to check the figures of some mental hospitals in New York State. Brooklyn State Hospital, as of October 1st, 1949, had 1165 men and women patients over 60. 71 of them were 85 to 89. 28 were 90 to 94. 34. Three were 95 to 99, and one was over 100. It is difficult to contemplate that an individual may enter at the age of 60 and live for 40 years in a mental hospital. Kings County has 1,800 patients who are past 60, and they send more than 100 patients a week over 60 to other state hospitals. The Manhattan State Hospital advises that of their 4,000 patients, 1971 are over 60 years of age. There are 153 on convalescent care. Dr. Travis writes that it is amongst the latter group that people should avail themselves of our day center activities. I am very deeply concerned with the 153 convalescent patients, but I am even more concerned with the people who may get into mental hospitals, particularly when we are advised that 75% of those already in mental hospitals could have remained in the community with a little help, and even now, most of them do not belong there. Old-age homes care for approximately 1% of our older people. I am interested in the more than 90% who neither get into the homes for the aged nor into mental hospitals nor into general hospitals. The thinking and lack of understanding and lack of interest in the community about our older people makes not only possible the fact that over 60% of all new admissions to mental hospitals are people over 60 in New York State, but it makes possible the consignment of most of our older people to our economic, social, and cultural scrap heap. When a man or woman stops working in his or her regular occupation, when there is no longer a family to support and raise, when an older person must learn to live alone after death of a lifetime partner, unless there is a place where they are needed, where they can continue to make a contribution, where they can continue to be active, they begin to lose their feelings of adequacy and worthwhileness. Time begins to hang heavy on their persons and on their personalities, particularly during the working hours between 9 and 5 when everyone else around them is busy, occupied, and functioning. I believe that it is at this time that deterioration sets in and illness becomes confused with age. There must be a place in the community for the older person that can provide the needed activity, the necessary companionship, and permit them to maintain a feeling of usefulness and adequacy. When we begin to analyze what really can be done for older people, now, not in the near future, we feel more and more that the development of a well-planned, integrated system of day centers for older people is one of the realistic, practical programs that can be developed today. It becomes even more apparent when Dr. Klage points out that among persons 65 to 74, one half are not affected by chronic disability and impairment. And he adds only 5 out of every 100 persons were classified as invalid. Now, when he also pointed out, as he did today, that there is a growing difference between ability to work, work itself, and the lifespan, then I think we must take another point of view. I would also like to point out that Dr. Charles Kidd analyzed the problem from a little bit different angle than Dr. Klage. He pointed out that a smaller population of older workers will be in the labor force in 1960 than in 1948, despite the recognition that there will be a tremendous increase in the number of older people. There's a steady marked decline of older people in the labor force. For example, in 1890, 70% of men 65 and over were in the labor force. By 1940, this figure declined to 42% and will decline to 36% by 1950. And by 1960, he predicts, it may be as low as 30%. Now, the day center can be a substitute for the loss of the workday. The day center can be instrumental in prolonging the period of usefulness. It can extend the feeling of acceptance and belonging to the older person, and it can give meaning to the latter part of life by developing a dynamic program for the older person. It is generally accepted that each individual ages at its own speed or pace, and in the same individual, different function, age at different rates. It is therefore the content age rather than birthday or chronological age that becomes important in working with older people. We hope that in these day centers, medical findings will be utilized to help the older person to a realization of the remaining strength available to him and to plan for its utilization. We also are aware that people have many areas of competency that a busy work life has not made possible to develop. We hope through a testing process to uncover these areas and combine those areas of competency with the strengths remaining to the individual and with the help of a casework group work program, the older person can maintain a period of well-being for a much longer time than is presently the case. We believe through the various activities developed at the center that it is possible to lessen the need for mental hospitals. We haven't had a single admission to a mental hospital for many of our centers in the six years of its existence to lessen the need for clinics and general hospitals. We find that when teamed at hospitals and clinics regularly that after they have been at a center with a center program for six months, there is not only a lessening but in many instances there is a complete elimination of the need to go to the hospital. We believe that we can cut the period of illness from a matter of years to a matter of months. We believe that we can add to the social structure a large number of well people, both emotionally and physically, instead of adding to our social structure large numbers of dissatisfied, disturbed, and rejected people with all the social implications and complications. We believe our program will conserve rather than waste human resources. We believe that the center can, through its objectives, one, in the promotion of the social and emotional adjustment of the older person through activity, two, in making possible for the older person the maximum use of the capacities least impaired and the capacities least used, and three, in the promotion of community usefulness by having the older person fit to participate in a voluntary program in the community, preserve not only the older person but the community itself. And I say that if it is true that the older person today is a much younger person, a much healthier and stronger individual, if it is also true that he is losing his job at a much earlier age. And we'll live at least 16 years according to the New York Life Insurance Company at the age of 60 and over 13 years at the age of 65. And if it is equally true, as Dr. Craig points out, that he will be, that there will be a steady gap between his period of employment, his longevity, and his actual ability to work, then it certainly is incumbent upon us to develop some kind of effective program to utilize those 15 or 20 years for effective work rather than for the deterioration of the older person. And I believe it is possible that the committee can recommend or can put into legislation the need for some 30 or 50 or 100,000 dollars, but I think for several million dollars for this kind of program. It is very difficult to accept on a page of one of the New York newspapers the outline of this kind of a program and right next to it an article that there will be 12 million dollars spent for a courthouse. Well, I think courthouses are important and necessary, but I can only think of what 12 million dollars would do for some 850,000 people in New York City who are past 60 and for the millions that are past 60 throughout the country. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm introducing our next speaker, Miss Ollie Randall. I'd like to tell her on behalf of the committee how much we appreciate the help she's been to the committee in so many ways. We're going to follow a very rigid time schedule here, adjourn promptly at 1, and resume Justice Pompey at 2.30. So if Miss Randall is not through by 1 o'clock, I hope she won't mind it, and then she can resume at the afternoon session. Miss Randall, as most of you know, is consultant on services for the agent of the Community Service Society of New York, and she will discuss need for a citizens committee on the elderly. Thank you, Senator Desmond, and Mr. Commissioner, friends of older people. As I have chanty this morning, I have been comforted by two very genuine observations. One is that if anybody has any doubt of the staying power of older people, I think they should realize that we have a dynamic demonstration of it this morning. And the other is that if there's any doubt about the eagerness of older people to learn, I would also refer them to this session. This morning, I'm given the opportunity of having the last word on the morning session. And as I came up here, I thought of an old college song that we used to sing, and his last words were. Now, mine are that there is a need for a citizens committee for the elderly. I consider it a very real opportunity and a rare privilege to be permitted to appear once more before this commission to discuss briefly the need for a citizens committee for the elderly, relating that discussion to some of the reasons for the need and to what might possibly be accomplished were there such committees in the constellation of services for older people in any community, but especially in the state of New York. Lloyd George once wrote that how we treat old people is the crucial test of our national quality. Coming nearer home in both time and space, one of our own local statesmen, Dr. Louis Dublin, speaking at the 1947 annual public hearing of this commission, pointed out that we should see to it that a group of public spirited citizens in the community is especially concerned about older people. Certainly the existence of this commission is evidence of our attempts to improve the quality of state responsibility and of the value of an organized group of citizens who will conscientiously and intelligently address their efforts to the problems faced by older people, which consequently are faced by the community as a whole. That it has had official status is a very fortuitous circumstance. The stirring of public interest, the actual collection of data, the distribution of those data to the ever-growing number of persons concerned but not informed about the problems of aging and aging people all serve a social purpose, the importance and validity of which can no longer be questioned. A legislative commission has its own peculiar place in our state program, which is to some extent prescribed and circumscribed by legislative statute. I should therefore like to put it to you that one of the problems which we as citizens who are not members of the government in any official capacity must solve is how we are going to capitalize on the work which this commission has done and is still doing and how to continue in force as well as to direct the activity which has been initiated and the momentum and the momentum of it. Legislative commissions have a way of coming and sometimes sadly, although sometimes not so sadly, of disappearing from the governmental scene when either their work has been completed or other problems appeal to the legislature as having precedent. But what is to take the place of this commission if and when the state government decides it no longer has a job to do or that the state can no longer sponsor that job? There is no doubt in my mind and I hope you'll be not in the minds of any person in whose power it is to make or influence decisions in the state legislature of 1950 as to the necessity and desirability of the continuation of this particular commission before which were appearing. And I'd like to add that I have introduced this little comment here without any prior turns with anybody on the commission either the chairman or any member of it. And I might say that if it isn't in line with good public hearing etiquette I haven't consulted the Emily Post public hearings and the consequences are upon my head. Today, wherever any of us go anywhere to discuss the special needs of older people whether those needs have to do with financial support employment, recreation, hospital care, education and especially the social services we are met with a statement that all folks are just people and must be treated just as are other people in the community. That is a fundamental and social fact human and social fact and no one would follow with a situation where that fact is the guiding principle of our social structure today. Then there would be no necessity for commissions or councils about which we are talking. The fact of the matter is that all people are not being so treated. Let us not fool ourselves about that nor let us evade issues by lip service to what becomes a very wearying, meaningless attitude. All people in growing numbers are dislocated Christians in almost any family or community. An equal opportunity to participate in normal family and community life is denied them in many instances on the mere basis of their chronological age. Consideration of them in relation to any one of the needs listed above is usually conditioned by the age of the individual and the availability of what the community has to offer a citizen is determined by his age. While age is submitted to action thus negatively as a barrier, we are, on the other hand, told it is not sound to plan positively for older people on this same basis. This in spite of the fact that what is done for children and adolescents is geared to their special needs which have been isolated and studied and in all instances experienced by the persons providing the service. We have not yet reached that stage of development in our provision for older people. Few of us, although here is our being added unto many more of us daily, have actually experienced old age when we are trying to help an old person make his plan. What old people in our midst should have is only now being studied and rather spotty at that. Our resources or rather our lack of them and our prejudiced opinions really determine what we think about the old person rather than the real knowledge about the individual himself. Therefore, it is my personal conviction that we still must have in the community at the local, state, and national levels citizens whose appointed task it is to keep a watchful eye upon the interests of older citizens, upon what is being learned that can alleviate their present unenviable status and to see what action is necessary. What I'm trying to say here might be illustrated is a story I heard the other day and which, by the way, is a true story. At a city council meeting in a nearby state, there sat two members of that council who saw eye to eye neither in matters of politics nor of conduct. One member was in the habit of coming to meetings and were obviously under the influence of liquor, much to the disproval and disgust of his opponent. And after a rather disturbing experience of one session in which this intoxicated gentleman which he haved in his usual undignified manner, his opponent deliberately paused and pointedly said, Mr. Mayor, we have all been hearing recently a great deal about Alcoholics Anonymous. Must we also be burdened by Alcoholics Conspicuous? Now what I'm trying to indicate here is that Alcoholics, either as individuals or members of a group, do not become anonymous until after a period of rather conspicuous difficulty and that by the same token we cannot expect to get the constructive or desirable old age anonymous or even synonymous with the rest of society until after a period in which there has been sufficient focus of attention and emphasis so sharpened that there is for a period of time an old age conspicuous. We are, I believe, in that stage of development now in the hope that through our planning old people can, before too long a time, become socially normal in that they are again natural and integral members of their community. To achieve that degree of social normalcy they should be able to call not only upon specially interested citizens, but upon those who combine this interest with the responsibility for making that interest count in terms of desirable community action. For the next few years at least, we must then have within governmental units those who will make it their business to know how they can improve the status of older people. We shall, in addition, require this group of public-spirited citizens who can, with each civic unit of government, continuously inventory and appraise what is being done, what more should be done, and stimulate the necessary action wherever it is called for. For instance, the mayor of the city of New York has recently appointed a mayor's advisory committee for the ages with a charge which covers the responsibility of advising on the whole broad scope of services which older citizens of this great city require. You've heard about some of these services this morning and you will hear more of them this afternoon. Simultaneously, there is being considered the organization of a national group which will hopefully have not only the same function and an even more active one for the nation as a whole so as to avoid in the future the sporadic and undirected programs which are now being undertaken without reference to what is already known or available. For these two reasons alone, even if we were not already convinced of the necessity of a statewide committee of citizens, it would appear to be logical that there be such a group to serve as the natural channel between the local groups in villages, towns, cities, and counties and to the national group. A council for the elderly is proposed for New York State in a bill which has been introduced during the 1949 state legislative session a copy of which is to be found in this commission's report never too old. This provides for an official council with direct participation by members of the administrative units of state government. This has real virtue and may have a place in our pattern of state organization but I should still like to see a group of citizens without administrative representation given official status either by independent organization on a commission basis or by appointment by the governor as being possibly more effective because of the freewheeling nature of their organization. Since the interests of so large a group of voting citizens are at stake, these should be continuously viewed objectively by persons who have a sympathy for and understanding of older people. However, they must similarly be so viewed that the present imbalance in social provisions weighted as it is in favor of the young is not continued by an equally dangerous over-weighting in favor of older people. Someone in Washington the other day specifically suggested that perhaps what we ought to do on a national basis is to buy the state of California and use it for a treat for all older people with their $100 pensions. Now this would be no more fantastic than the recent situation in which the state was. in effect showed out for the benefit of the old folks and the population at the expense of younger people and even at the expense of many of the civic institutions which are essential to maintain a decent level of living for the very oath that's demanding the financial support which was wrecking the state's economy. This experience can happen here and by fear meaning New York State or almost anywhere else in the United States either right now or in the near future and perhaps this horrible example of shallotan leadership in California has served a very salutary purpose. We still learn painfully by way of what Commissioner Ruth Taylor Westchester calls the obvious if not actually by way of the very conspicuous. New York State has roughly almost 10% of the total number of legally aged people in the country and New York City has almost 5% of them. Now while our programs are generally quite sound it is within the realm of credibility and of possibility that in some sections of the state dissatisfaction could easily lend itself to making people receptive to this demagogic picture of a personal utopia in old age. It is for all of us to remember that no utopian plan established at the expense of the rest of society or out of step of the contemporary social life of the community has ever survived nor should it. But citizens groups can undertake to inform and educate all of us what an old person's utopia can and should actually be for each of us that of having an equal opportunity with others to be persons and personalities in our own right in society with our fair and earned share of what the community offers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Otto. The morning session is now adjourned. We'll resume again in this room promptly at 2.30. Thank you. My screen is 100. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Let it all. Our next speaker is Miss Jane M. Hoy, director of the Bureau of Public Assistance of the United States Social Security Administration. And Miss Hoy will discuss friends in old age assistance. As an introduction to the subject trends in old age assistance, perhaps it would be desirable to state some of the basic assumptions underlying the need for and objective of an old age assistance program. Man is the nation's greatest asset, whatever his age, not just when he's young, and whatever his race, nationality, religion, physical or mental capacity, personality or social or economic status. The family, whatever its composition or age of its members, is the basic unit of our civilization and needs to be developed and preserved whatever the cost. There is no substitute for the family, nor for the care and affection which most members of the family give to each other. The nation has an obligation to man, always to respect his dignity, his integrity and rights as a human being, and to help him develop all his capacities to be productive, to support himself and his dependents, and to contribute materially, culturally and spiritually to his own growth and the development for the benefits of society. The nation, through its various governmental units and private agencies, has an obligation to make possible normal family life, through such measures as will protect health and develop wholesome surroundings in which man can live, to establish and maintain decent standards of living, to provide such services as education, health and welfare as are necessary to promote public welfare, and to encourage private institutions and agencies in giving services which are helpful to man and family, as these services are needed and desired. It is because of our failure to live up to our theoretical assumptions in practice, and because of the facts of change in our population, and the varying needs of groups such as the aging, that we must reconsider our plans, our attitudes and our programs. When the Social Security Act was passed in 1935, it was in the middle of a depression, and millions of workers of all age groups were unemployed. There was a generally accepted idea at that time, that older workers should retire, and thus leave jobs available for younger workers. During the long period of the depression, large numbers of older workers who were unemployed used up their savings and other resources, and at 65 were almost completely destitute. Therefore, a long-range plan for meeting need caused by certain common hazards, unemployment and old age, were developed under the Social Security Act. Provision was made for unemployment insurance, state administered, and old age insurance, later changed to old age and survivors insurance, a federal plan financed through crop contributions of employees and employers. However, no provision under the Social Security Act was made for large numbers of workers, chiefly those in agriculture and domestic service. Also, there were many who were then aged and in need, and who could never be covered by the insurance program. So for this latter group, the Social Security Act provided grants and aids to states, to help them give more adequate financial aid and other services to their needy aged living in their own homes, or in private institutions or boarding homes. Because this needy group was so numerous, and because it took so long for persons to qualify under the old age insurance program, many persons, aged and others, assumed that the only program for care of the aged with which the federal and state governments were concerned was old age assistance. For this reason, and because for a long time there were individuals and groups advocating pensions for the aged, some state legislatures have tried through the old age assistance program to guarantee a minimum income to the needy aged, and have liberally interpreted needs. Because old age insurance benefits are inadequate to meet average needs, many beneficiaries of old age insurance are also eligible for supplementary old age assistance, and about 10% are in receipt of it. If changes in the Social Security Act, such as are proposed in H.R. 6000, passed by the House and now before the Senate, are enacted, this may change drastically the trend in old age assistance in the future. It may also change community attitudes toward the need for a flat pension. An old age and survivors insurance program for all employed persons, with benefits adequate in amount to meet average needs, supplemented by an old age assistance program for the needy aged, would seem to be a desirable objective toward which we have made real progress, but which needs extension and strengthening, as indicated by present Congressional action. Old age assistance is a program of financial aid and other services to men and women who are at least 65 years of age, and who do not have enough income and resources to secure the necessities of life, food, shelter, clothing, medical care, etc. The program was intended to supplement insufficient incomes of individual people, and to supplement other plans and programs that provide income after 65. These programs have not developed as anticipated, and old age assistance has grown beyond its intended scope and responsibilities. To understand past trends and to plan for the properly limited function of old age assistance in the future, we must look in passing at some of the pertinent developments in the United States. As most of our programs and plans for old age security are oriented toward age 65, that age has become, unfortunately, synonymous with old, retired, disabled, and sometimes useless. Unless community attitudes and our programs are redirected toward a worker's ability to maintain himself as long as he is able, and wishes to do so, many of our citizens over 65 will be sentenced to a life of inactivity. To avoid this sentence, we must overcome those confusing and misleading concepts and attitudes they reflect. We must assert our conviction that people over 65, like those of 20 and 40, have the right and the responsibility to use fully their capacities for work, play, and participation in community affairs. For ethical, social, and economic reasons, we cannot afford to retire workers automatically on their 65th birthday. Although we should modify our fixation on age 65 as a benchmark for retirement, we must keep in mind that the rate of people who reach that age is growing more rapidly than the population as a whole. In 1880, persons 65 and over counted 3.4 of the population. In 1940, 5.7 percent. In 1969, 9.2 percent. In 1975, 11.3 percent. In 1948, there were 11 million persons 65 and over. In 1960, there will be 15 million. Resources of the older worker. We are all too familiar with the truth of the statement that employment opportunities of older workers deteriorate. It has been confirmed recently by a study of the United States Employment Service conducted in six areas in the spring of 1949 at the height of the recent recession. In a period of declining employment, marginal workers, and particularly men over 45 and women over 35, are among the first to be laid off. This is especially true of unskilled workers. Unemployed men over 45 and women over 35 take longer than those in younger age groups to find new employment. If not re-employed in their former regular occupation, they are nearly always required to accept employment at lower skill and pay levels. Such employment policies are hardly in line with the unequivocal statement of economists that our economy cannot get along without the older worker if it is to be an expanding economy of the type they forecast. The majority of retired workers are not likely to maintain themselves from their own savings. One example may not be enough to show this. In November 1949, it cost a family of four in Detroit $280 per month to maintain itself at a modest standard of living. $260 per month is the average wage of the Detroit automobile worker if he works 11 out of 12 months. $36 is the monthly premium for a private annuity that assures him an income of $100 at age 60 if he starts buying it at age 30 and pays for 360 months. This is, of course, impossible for most factory and farm workers. Private pension plans are estimated to cover about 4 million workers, many of whom are also entitled to old age and survivors' insurance benefits. The essential purpose of these plans is to remove those workers from the employment role who are past the specified age, usually 65. Union welfare funds were established as early as 1867, when the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers developed a death and accident benefit plan. Their rather spectacular expansion is due in part to the lack of provision for sickness and disability insurance under old age and survivors' insurance. Today, these union plans protect nearly 4 million workers, about five times the number in 1945. In 1935, when the Social Security Act was passed, old age insurance was expected to be the major source of economic security for the retired worker. Because of the program's limited coverage and inadequate benefits, this intent of Congress has been realized only in part. Out of 57 million workers in civilian employment in June 1949, some 22 million were in jobs that provided no credit under the old age and survivors' insurance program. The number of beneficiaries aged 65 and older was then about 1,800,000. The number had almost tripled since 1945, but was still 800,000 fewer than the number of old age assistance recipients in June 1949, 2,600,000. The average monthly old age insurance benefit was about $26 per month. In 19if HR 6000 becomes law, its liberalization for old age and survivors' insurance would be felt gradually in old age assistance as the program matures. But we could not look to an immediate realignment of responsibility between the programs. As previously indicated, the vigorous efforts of the so-called pension movement makes it hazardous to predict that the future will assign to the old age and survivors' insurance its major role, and to old age assistance its minor, place among Social Security programs. In fact, these movements are a direct threat to old age and survivors' insurance. They exert strong political pressure to expand old age assistance into a non-contributory pension program for all persons aged 65 and older, their cost to be met from current taxation. The success of these efforts is obvious in Louisiana, Washington, California, and Colorado particularly, as is their impact on governmental expenses and taxation. For instance, Louisiana in 1949 has the highest per capita tax revenue in the country. $85 is compared with $79 in Washington, $72 in California, and $70 in Colorado. This is exclusive of unemployment insurance taxes. The rise and fall of the movement in California may not be an omen of future development. However, California's experience illustrates what happens when an old age assistance is promoted, with little consideration of the requirements of other needy people in the state, or of other types of public services which need financing, such as education and health. Through these efforts has been created an imbalance in program planning, and adequate consideration to all interests has not been given in some states. In Colorado, for example, more is spent today for old age assistance than for education, for example. On the other hand, these tension movements have made positive contributions by drawing attention to the needs of the aged, and securing more adequate assistance in a number of states, and by strengthening the conviction throughout the country that old age assistance comes to people as a right and not as a gratuity. As a way of decentralizing operations, and in order to leave with the state's full responsibility for administration of old age assistance, and other public assistance and service programs, the federal government established under the Social Security Act grants an aid to the state. The conditions for state receipt of such funds are stated in the Act, including the maximum amount of federal funds available to match state funds. In the fiscal year 1950, the federal government will expend over $1 billion for public assistance to 4.5 million needy persons, and the state governments will spend about an equal amount. For old age assistance, the federal share in 1950 will be about $850 million. Currently, in October 1949, the number of recipients is about $2,700,000. The unbalance in provisions as between programs under the Social Security Act can best be illustrated by the amount granted to states under the Social Security Act since the beginning of these programs, in February 1936 through October 1949. The total amount in round figures for public health service grants, the three programs under the Children's Bureau, Triple Children, Maternal and Child Health, and Child Welfare Services, the Administration of Employment Security, and the three public assistance programs, old age assistance, aid to dependent children, and age of the blind, were $7 billion, about $5 billion of which went for old age assistance, and only about $1 billion for aid to dependent children, although there are potentially about an equal number of needy children. The federal agency matches state funds up to certain maximums, and the higher income states generally make higher appropriations. In the nation as a whole, old age assistance programs have developed gradually toward more adequate payments and coverage, toward more equitable treatment of individuals, and more efficient operations. All age assistance laws have existed in the United States since 1915, when the first one later found unconstitutional was passed in Alaska. Montana followed in 1923, Nevada and Wisconsin in 1925. By 1935, there were 32 states that had enacted legislation and paid old age assistance under these laws. Ten of these states began payments only in 1934, in anticipation of the Social Security Act. In December 1935, 42 states had submitted plans for the administration of old age assistance to the Social Security Board. All states and territories had an approved plan by December 1938. Since then, the number of recipients has drawn from 1,700,000 to 2,700,000 in October 1949. Almost one out of every four persons aged 65 and over is now on the old age assistance road. The number of beneficiaries of this program is greater than in any other public program except those for reference. In October 1949, the average assistance payment was $44.37 if compared with 29.75 in July 1945. This average payment today buys only 11% more consumer goods and services than in 1945. The cost of the federal government has more than doubled since 1945. Assistance recipient rates and amounts of assistance still vary widely among the states. In June 1949, 810 out of every 1,000 aged persons were on the assistance road in Louisiana, 601 in Oklahoma, 103 in New York, 66 in New Jersey, and 109 in Pennsylvania. In June 1949, the average monthly payment in California was $70.55 and in Mississippi $18.80. In New York, it was $52.74. This range between average payments is obviously much greater than the range between the cost of living and these states. If we were to appreciate what the individual payment may mean to individual men and women who must live on it, we cannot think only in terms of national averages. Perhaps the most significant development in the shifting pattern of state recipient rates has been that of the development of a rather clear-cut relationship between the per capita income of the state and the proportion of aged persons on assistance. States with a low per capita income have now in general the high recipient rate. This situation is quite different from the situation in 1940. In that year, Nevada and New York, states with high per capita income, had recipient rates of 134, 334, and 128 per thousand, aged 65 and older. And Arkansas and Mississippi states with very low per capita income had rates of 185 and 193. Today, the figures are respectively 220 and 103 for Nevada and New York and 403 and 480 for Arkansas and Mississippi. In eight states, most of which rank low in per capita income, more than 400 per thousand are receiving aid. Five states, four of which rank high in per capita income, had a rate below 100 per 1,000. If we relate this pattern to the pattern of distribution of old age and survivors' insurance benefits, it becomes clear that in the agricultural states, the old age assistance program carries an extra burden of needy persons out of proportion to that of the industrial states. 11, except West Virginia, of the 12 states, Mississippi, Arkansas, South Carolina, Alabama, Kentucky, North Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Louisiana, Oklahoma, New Mexico, and West Virginia, that had the lowest per capita income in 1947, rank high in the relative number of old age assistance recipients, and low in the proportion receiving old age and survivors' insurance benefits in June 1949. In that month, 14 states had more beneficiaries of old age and survivors' insurance than recipients of old age assistance. Nine of these states, largely industrial, had per capita incomes above the national average in the 46-48 period. The 14 states in which this situation exists are Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Indiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Virginia. Increased federal financial participation has been an important factor in enabling states to raise assistance payments. Following the enactment of the 1948 amendments, most states reported increases in average payments. Many of these resulted from raising the money amounts assigned to individual items in the state's assistance standards, from adding items to the standards, or from raising maximums. From June 48 to June 49, the average increase was $5 or more in 15 states, and from $4 to $4.99 in eight states. Among the states that increased payments by smaller amounts, the largest single group included those in which state funds were inadequate, and cuts in payments to recipients would have been made had there been no additional federal funds. Some of the states with smaller increases also added relatively large numbers of recipients to their assistance roles. In New York State, recipients benefited from the 48 amendments by an average monthly increase of $3.30. Since the New York provisions for financing the program require that the localities meet 20% of the total payments, the localities had to appropriate additional funds to meet their share of the increase, since assistance roles have continued to expand. From statistical and case records, we know that the ways by which assistance is provided is improving in many places. Applicants receive aid with less delay. In 1946, for example, only 31 states made the first payment less than a month after the receipt of the request for aid. In 1948, 39 states managed to do so. This is administrative progress, although two or three weeks may seem a very long waiting period to the needy applicant. More and more recipients are left free to spend their assistance payments according to their own choice and judgment, as required in the Social Security Act. In our review of state practice for 47-48, which was limited to one or a few counties in each state, serious questions were raised only in four states about a violation of the requirement that assistance be paid without direction on the spending by the agency. However, practices which do not restrict outright the recipient's use of the money, but are not in accord with the principle of unrestricted cash payments, are unfortunately still found in several states. It is difficult for some workers to draw the fine line between counseling on appropriate uses for money and instructions on how to spend it. The opportunity for a hearing before the state agency is available to dissatisfied claimants in all states. The promptness and ease with which this opportunity is given, of course, varies considerably. While average assistance payments still differ widely among the states, distinct progress has been made within a good many states toward equitable determination according to uniform statewide standards of assistance. I might interject that also the protection of the information about recipients to be used only in relation to the administration of public assistance is now quite universal, although it was not so until there was an amendment to the Social Security Act which restricted the use. While the public assistance program is primarily concerned with money for maintenance when medical care is not available from other sources, it must be provided by the assistance agency. The provision of medical care or of money for its purchase has steadily increased. In 11 states, maximums on assistance payments may be exceeded for that purpose. In Louisiana, it may be raised to $90 for that purpose. In Montana, it may be increased to $90 for nursing care and to $100 for hospitalization. In addition to amounts made available to recipients to pay for medical care, most agencies, among them New York, that provide such care, pay vendors directly for medical care. Some vendor payments, that is to doctors or hospitals, are most likely to be made when large bills for hospitalization or other expensive treatment are incurred. Four states meet the entire cost of medical care through vendor payments. Federal financial participation is not available for the expense of vendor payments and for expenses that exceed the federal maximum. Under HR 6000, vendor payments may be made, but the maximum on individual payments for old-age assistance is $50 per month for assistance and medical care. That's the matching amount. This would be entirely inadequate. Providing possibly $6 per month on the average for each old-age assistance recipient would be a much more adequate amount. Throughout the country, many public assistance workers give additional services such as counseling to and referrals of claimants to other social agencies. These services are so closely integrated with the workers' activities in determining eligibility that their statistical enumeration and identification in case records is not feasible. We can identify those services that are provided by special staffs such as homemaker services given in New York City, through which people are helped to stay in their own homes when their ability to manage them is failing. In several states, Illinois, Texas, Michigan, state and local staffs develop ways of making sheltered care available to aged recipients. In many large and small communities, and probably in all states, top administrative staffs cooperate in community planning for health and welfare services. Legislative trends. Trends toward liberalization and expansion of the assistance programs continued in legislation enacted in 1949, a year when nearly all legislatures were in session. The trend generally was toward increasing the amount of assistance paid to needy people, and to making more needy people eligible for aid by repealing various restrictive conditions of eligibility. Little legislation was enacted which restricted the scope of the assistance programs. This is interesting because many legislatures had previously appointed committees to study the operation of the public welfare department specifically, or as part of a larger study of state government. One reason given was to see whether the assistance roles could be reduced. In previous legislative sessions, there have always been some areas of public assistance administration in some states that have suffered setbacks, although legislation as a whole was constructive. In 1947, legislation affecting the responsibility of relatives to support their kin, and the recovery from the estate of recipients for assistance granted restricted the state's programs in some instances. These same areas were singled out for attention in 1949. For instance, there were some liberalizations. In 1949, eleven states amended their laws with reference to minimums and maximums on old-age assistance payments. Eight states raised the maximum. Two established or changed the minimum. Connecticut deleted its maximum altogether. Five states liberalized residence provisions, including one that repealed the residence requirement. Some repealed the clauses requiring the recovery of assistance granted from the estate or resources of recipients. Arizona modified its citizenship requirement and tempered the provision that made acceptance of employment a condition of eligibility. Massachusetts provided for an additional item in its assistance standards, namely $4 for leisure time activities, and the state is to reimburse the locality for this amount in full, notwithstanding any other provisions concerning reimbursement. Eight states passed legislation affecting persons in institutions or needing institutional care. This reflects the continued interest of legislatures in this area and the discussions in Congress that considered a relaxation of provisions in Title I and X, which now prohibit federal financial participation in payments to inmates of public institutions. There were some restrictive, there were some. The outstanding concern of legislatures with the problem of dependency arising from desertion by parents is also noticeable in provisions affecting adult children who refuse to support their parents. Seven states this year enacted statutes providing for interstate cooperation in obtaining support for deserting relatives. Several other states passed other provisions to strengthen the responsibility of public agencies to secure support from relatives. If property was transferred for other than fair consideration within a specified period, this was made a bar to eligibility in several states. The right to recover from resources of recipients of assistance paid was written into some laws, as well as penalties for any fraudulent action in connection with the receipt of assistance. There was also considerable activity in providing for changes in state organizational patterns in some states and in others for a modification in the division of fiscal responsibilities between state and counties. Some of the latter should prove to be of considerable help to those counties that have found it hard, if not impossible, to raise their share of money for assistance expenditures. In closing, I should like to reiterate and elaborate and elaborate my introductory remarks. The increasing interest in and understanding of the problems of an aging population hopefully will make itself felt in many ways. An old age and survivors insurance program expanded to cover all employed persons, including agricultural workers, would in the not too distant future reverse the trends toward an expanding old age assistance program and restrict the latter to the function of meeting the needs of a relatively small number of needy people who, for some exceptional reason, are not entitled to old age and survivors insurance benefits or find them inadequate. The social insurances should be the basic form of security against need when people cannot work and support themselves. A basic minimum guaranteed to workers through their own and their employer's contributions would maintain in this country the possibility of mobility of labor, a right which is important for us to maintain. If these developments come to pass, both programs can assume their respective major and minor functions in a comprehensive plan of the American community for its older citizens. Such a plan should be based on the following facts. Chronological age, per se, does not establish a barrier to continuous economic self-maintenance, employment, rehabilitation, or to physical and mental health. Although disabling conditions accompany the aging process in many cases, aging itself must not be treated as a disability. The community as a whole depends increasingly on the contribution of aging persons, and they must be urged to participate in planning and working with the younger people. Although it may be necessary to do so for an interim period, we are not interested in setting up special welfare services for the agents, but we are interested in establishing for all people who want them social and economic resources built up in balance within our total economy. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Hoey. Our next speaker is Mr. Robert C. Goodwin, Director of the Bureau of Employment Security of the United States Department of Labor. Mr. Goodwin will discuss employment of our elderly. Mr. McMasterville, Director of Bank, despite the Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who have had any responsibility for one phase or another of the program for older people are, I am sure, greatly impressed with the contribution that this committee has made to the problem, and it was therefore with a real pleasure that I accepted the invitation of your committee to appear and in the hope that I might make some small contribution to the question of the older worker in the labor market. In tackling the problems of the older worker, we are really trying to resolve a paradox. As stated by Dr. Bortz from former president of the American Medical Association, and I quote, with one hand modern society does everything possible to extend the life of a man, while with the other it writes him off as useless because of the date of his birth certificate, unquote. Our economic and social thinking has lagged far behind our scientific advances, so that although we have added 17 years to our average expectation of life at birth between 1900 and 1945, the labor force participation of the elderly has gotten smaller. This matter is not one of mere academic interest to us who are concerned with the administration of unemployment insurance and employment service programs. Our interest goes beyond the general social, political, and economic significance of the problem to the very heart of our operations, the matching of men and jobs. Hundreds of times a month, the drama of older workers seeking employment is played in our 1800 local offices across the country. In view of the eminent demographers who have and who will appear before your committee, it will not be necessary to do more than briefly review some basic population and labor force trends. An employment service operating only 50 years ago would have been very little concerned with the problems of the older worker. At that time we were still a relatively young nation with a median age of 22.9 and with only 4 and 1 tenth percent of our population 65 years old and over. Two thirds of these older workers were in the labor force. Although industrialization was already well underway, there was still a large farm population and a substantial proportion of our people were self-employed or worked for small establishment, all of which was conducive to the employment of older workers. The employment service of 1940 was confronted with quite a different set of considerations. A declining birth rate, an increase in the life span, and the virtual cessation of in-migration all helped the nation to get older. Our median age in 1940 had reached 29. Those 65 years old and over represented 6 and 8 tenth percent of the population. But only 43 and 4 tenth percent of these workers were in the labor force and 13 percent of them were unemployed. About half had been jobless for at least a year. In periods of large scale unemployment, the older workers are by far the hardest hit group. Manpower shortages resulting from World War II suddenly opened the door to the older worker. It is estimated that in April 1945, 2,600,000 more workers aged 45 and over were employed than would have been expected from long-term pre-war trends. After the war, millions left the workforce. After the war, millions left the workforce. Among the men, however, the big decline occurred in the younger group, particularly those under 20. It is significant that the labor force contracted less among the older workers. Even today, the older worker is holding his own. According to the Bureau or the Census, 4.5 percent of the labor force of those 55 to 64 years were unemployed in October 1949. The corresponding figure for those 65 years and over is 3.8 percent. This compares favorably with the 5.7 percent unemployment rate for all ages. Despite this present status and despite the recent spurt in the nation's birth rate, there is reason to believe that basic trends will reassert themselves and the problem, now latent, will again become acute. The Bureau of Employment Security and the affiliated state employment security agencies are in an excellent position to study the job problems of the older worker. One of the more significant studies recently undertaken was an analysis of the experience of older job seekers in six communities selected from different parts of the country and representing varying conditions in respect to the extent of unemployment. In a sense, the six communities may be considered as reflecting employment conditions under different phases of our business cycle. The cities, Dallas, Birmingham, Denver, Rochester, Toledo, and Portland, Oregon, represented labor market conditions that range from very tight labor supply to substantial labor surplus. The survey reaffirmed conclusions previously arrived at and uncovered some new findings. The study revealed that in labor markets with little unemployment, there are substantially less jobless among the older workers as compared with the younger. In five out of six areas, the proportion of workers 45 years and older registered with the employment service was less than their percentage in the total workforce. This was especially true in Dallas, a tight labor supply area. Here, older workers accounted for about 36% of the area's labor force and yet only 21% of those registered for work. Portland, on the other hand, with a large labor surplus, was strikingly different. Workers 45 years and over represented 37% of the total workforce but were 43% of those registered. As unemployment increases, employer specifications with respect to age are tightened and the percent of older workers among the jobless increases. In both tight and loose labor markets, older workers once separated from the job take longer to find employment. If not reemployed at their regular work, they are usually downgraded in skill and pay. In all six areas studied, older workers sought jobs longer than did the younger workers. In Birmingham, for example, 26% of the workers under 45 years remained in the active files for over two months, while older workers for the same period accounted for some 35%. Other evidence of longer unemployment is available from unemployment insurance experience. In Rochester, insured workers who used up all of their benefit rights in 26 consecutive weeks of unemployment included larger proportions of the older workers. Older worker discrimination varies not only with the condition of the labor market but also with occupation, industry, and worker characteristics. It was found that low age limits were set on unskilled jobs that required strength. Two, there were few restrictions in the low paid and undesirable service occupations. Three, restrictions were not too rigid in skilled occupations requiring long training periods. And four, there were, however, quite rigid in white collar jobs. In all six areas, there were significant restrictions against older workers. For example, 51% of all job orders received in Portland specified an age limit of under 45 years. This was the area with the greatest labor surplus. In Dallas and Denver, discrimination was less severe but still significant. Age limitations in both cities were found on about 33% of all job orders. In Birmingham, 79% of the orders were restricted, but much of that was due to the great physical requirements of heavy industry located there. The reasons for discrimination against the older worker are many, but in the main are based upon mistaken notions. First, hiring older workers will increase my workman's compensation rate is a frequent objection. To this, the Association of Casualty and Assurity Companies replied, and I quote, Let this be understood, there is no provision in workman's compensation insurance policies or rates that penalizes an employer for hiring a handicapped worker. There appears to be much misinformation on this point. Therefore, to erase any misunderstanding, these are the facts. Workman's compensation rates are determined by two factors. One, relative hazards in the company's work, and two, its accident experience. The formula for determining the premium rates makes no consideration for the type of personnel involved. The insurance contract, therefore, says nothing implied or direct about the physical condition of the worker that the insured may hire, unquote. Secondly, older workers are more likely to become injured on the job, is another favorite standby. Yet, in the study of absenteeism and injury experience of older workers prepared by the BLS, Mr. Max D. Casualty, found in the study of work conditions of about 17,000 workers in a variety of 109 manufacturing industries, that the only disadvantage of the older worker is that their disabilities last longer once they are injured. But on the whole, they are likely to be absent less frequently and less likely to be injured than the younger workers. Older workers are less profitable. Why invest in training oldsters who won't be around much longer? These comments overlook studies that indicate that older workers are more experienced, have less outside distraction, are more conscientious, and often are as productive as younger workers. Undoubtedly, old age weakens ability on those jobs requiring energy and speed. But even on such jobs, the decline from age 50 to 75 is slight and varies with the occupation. As for an investment in training, there is more than one case on record where the so-called older worker outlived his younger detractor. Pension plans are a favorite justification for personnel policies that bar older workers. In view of the current widespread trend to adopt pension plans through collective bargaining, this is rapidly becoming a serious consideration. It is, however, possible to adjust pension plans formally so that the hiring of older workers does not create an undue burden on employers. The extension of collective bargaining agreements to the extent that they affect seniority provisions have been a major factor in protecting job rights of older workers. You can't teach an old dog new tricks, or sometimes it is stated as fear that the older worker may carry over old work habits instead of responding to the ways of the new establishment. Stated either way, it misrepresents the case. What's to do? A program for the older worker must point in two directions. First, toward the elderly who want to retire, and second, toward those who wish to remain in the labor market. At the present time, the older worker has no real choice since pensions are generally much too low to permit retirement regardless of inclination. For those who wish to retire, the obvious need is for extension of coverage and liberalization of old age and survivors insurance, old age assistance, and other forms of categorical relief in which older workers participate. Moreover, payments under such programs should be adjusted to changes in the cost of living. However, there is a great deal of evidence indicating that many workers wished to remain in the labor force beyond the legal old age, so-called, of 65. This was evidenced, for example, by the reluctance of those older workers who came into the labor market during the war to leave when hostilities were over. Moreover, we are told by the medical profession that such participation is good for them. A marked increase in deaths among workers soon after they retire has been noted. The economists add that it is good for society, too, since it increases the productive units in the community and permits a higher standard of living. Our particular concern is with that part of the program which facilitates the continued participation of older workers in productive employment. The basic approach to the problem must be a local one. That is not to say that the federal and state governments have no role. On the contrary, there are such vital activities of the federal government as vocational rehabilitation, public health programs, accident prevention, adult education and training, job clinics for older workers, and so on. We do not propose to attempt to legislate older workers into jobs. It may, however, be advisable to remove those legislative barriers which make it difficult for older workers to remain employed. A case in point would be the ban prohibiting Social Security pension payments to accumulate during periods of employment past retirement age. There is also much that the state and private agencies can and have been doing. The activities of this committee are perhaps one of the best examples of that. The major program must be individual and personalized. This requires a thorough knowledge of the local labor market, including information on the size, nature, and job requirements of employers, as well as full knowledge of the job history and abilities of the older job applicants. The local offices of the employment service have, through its employer relations program, been conducting a campaign to promote the hiring of older workers and other special groups, by educating the employers to the usefulness of these workers. We have attempted to point out to employers the implications of improved medical science, and on longevity and the higher levels of physical abilities of the older workers. We have tried to get employers away from counting birthdays and to have them think in terms of occupational or physiological age. Through its job analysis program, the employment service is in a position to undertake job engineering projects that will show the types of jobs best suited for the elderly. Through its counseling and selective placement techniques, the employment service has been rendering personalized service to the older workers. As was reported to your committee last year, the New York State Employment Service recognized the special problems of the older worker and has revised its counseling program accordingly. Personnel engaged in interviewing, counseling, and job solicitation on behalf of older workers were given special training. These changes were the result of an experiment which involved setting up a small unit at the New York City Commercial Office to deal exclusively with the placement of clerical job seekers 50 years of age and older. Between November 1947 and November 1948, a total of 1,120 referrals were made to employer interviews. Of those interviewed, 305 or 27 percent were placed in jobs. The usual experience in clerical referrals is 40 percent. A check made three months later of 25 workers showed that 18 were still employed. The majority of openings secured for the older workers were obtained by persistent telephone solicitation. Complete analysis of the applicant's experience and personal qualifications was followed by careful presentation of his best features to selected employers. A total of 933 such employers were given the telephone sales talk on behalf of specific older applicants. Most placements were made in small companies where there are no pension plans. It was found that older workers needed individual selling as long as there is employer resistance. It was also evident that a sales presentation placed upon the concept of an age handicap does not get results. The success of this experiment in spotlighting specific problems and suggesting solutions has encouraged the New York State Employment Service to extend the project to the Queen's Industrial Office, the Manhattan Clerical and Professional Office, and the Domestic and Household Office. The possibility of conducting similar experiments in Buffalo is also being considered. Any agency like the Employment Service, while it can do much, swims upstream until there is more recognition of the problem by employers and positive action to remove artificial barriers. Another illustration of positive programming for the older worker was reported by the Employment Service in Miami, Florida. Here, several veterans who had held responsible front office jobs in the hotel industry found that they could no longer secure this type of work. The problem of these older workers was discussed with the hotel association and a cooperative program set in motion. A training program was instituted covering such jobs as transcript writers, auditors, food control, and other jobs in the hotel industry that could utilize the knowledge and skills that these older workers had acquired through the years. Jobs were then solicited for each of these veterans in the occupation for which they had been trained. Any program, no matter how well conceived, runs the risk of being scuttled during a period of large-scale unemployment. Older workers have a very special interest in maintaining the economy at high employment levels. Unless we are able to do this, the rejoinder to life begins at 40 will invariably be, do you call that living? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Goodman. Our next speaker is Dr. Robert T. Monroe of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. Dr. Monroe will discuss the functions of a geriatrics clinic. Dr. Monroe of the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Chairman Desmond, members of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, we in Dero of Boston want to thank you for the volume you put out, Birthdays Do Count. The studies of the New York State Health Preparedness Commission over a period of 10 years, culminating in a comprehensive plan for the care of the chronically ill, are a model of the way in which these complex problems must be analyzed. The plans make sense. They can guide us in other states and other countries. They are also evidence of the fact that health problems can be considered without acrimony and partisanship by a group of public servants and medical men. This New York plan covering the care of illness from hospital to home and full health or to death applies especially to old people. Old age is the time of life when persistent diseases occur most frequently and when scars of accidents and disease and deficits of all sorts steadily accumulate. No one, in fact, can live beyond middle life without showing some evidences of the ravages of time. And so old people are the big problem in our hospitals and other institutions. In the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital with which I am connected, one in every three medical service admissions is over 61 years of age. This hospital does not take children under 12. And the proportions of old people in general hospitals probably are less. But it is not likely that they are less than one in five. A survey of the almshouses of Massachusetts about four years ago showed that two-thirds of the occupants were over 65 years of age. And two-thirds of them were bed or semi-bed patients. I would guess that the age composition of our nursing homes is equally weighted in favor of old people. Yet old people make up less than 10% of our population. Old people need their full share of hospital facilities. They respond as favorably to the amazing antibiotics as their younger neighbors. Surgical procedures are about as safe for them also. And they need no longer be denied curative or palliative operations because of age. A very great improvement in the quality and duration of life is available to them. But I do not believe that they need as large a percentage of our general hospital facilities as they now preempt. It is obvious that many sick old people go to hospitals for minor troubles because they have nowhere else to go. This is a waste of both money and space. For hospital study and care are the most expensive form of medical service. And in many areas there are too few beds to permit them to be occupied without a regard to priority of needs. When we have hospitals for chronic diseases and wards for the same purpose in general hospitals, they will be used very largely by old people. In them we can take excellent care of patients with complications of diabetes mellitus, others with persistent heart and kidney failure, and those with fractures and arthritis. They can be our best resource to study the means for rehabilitating patients with paralysis and inadequate circulation. But again, we must guard against their becoming repositories for terminal care. It is unlikely that we shall ever have so many beds for chronic disease that we can tolerate indefinite residents in them. Nursing homes enter the picture here. Some will be for custodial care of patients who have been demonstrated unable to improve on active treatment. Other homes will be for the advancement of convalescence to the point where families can take over. Still others may be for minor acute illnesses such as grip and sprains, in patients especially old ones whose resources at home need such supplementation. If enough of these nursing homes are administered and staffed by local general hospitals, the quality of their care will raise the standards of all above their present deplorable level. This completes the list of buildings that seems to be needed to provide for all types of medical care. Yet one needs little acquaintance with old people to see that there must be one more facility. That is a clinic set up especially for them, a geriatrics clinic if you wish. It is the purpose of this paper to describe its functions and it is based upon nine years' experience in one. We are well aware of the value of heart clinics, cancer clinics, well-baby clinics, child guidance clinics and so on. I believe the geriatric clinics will become as useful in time. The special functions of the geriatric clinic have turned out to be three in general. In the first place it fosters the maximum physical fitness in old age. The disabilities of old people only occasionally require bed care. Most of the time the patients are able to be up and about and it is at this level, in these intervals of relatively little trouble, that much can be done to promote health and stave off recurrences. When a patient has recovered from heart failure or coronary artery occlusion, he needs to be seen frequently if he is to regain confidence in living and to learn what he can do and what he cannot do. His heart disease is not cured in the sense that his heart loses all traces of trouble, but in the great majority of instances that heart can give a satisfactory account of itself for a very long time. Most old people have high blood pressure. They too need to report frequently to learn that it is not dangerous or disabling. Most old people have pain that suggests arthritis and all of them can be shown to have the degenerative changes that are called hypertrophic arthritis. Yet the correction of postural and other mechanical stresses and constant instruction in the need for exercise and physical play relieve most of them. Physical therapy is helpful, but not often necessary. It cannot take the place of teaching old people how to regain comfort and the exhalation of active normal living. Patients with peptic ulcer need frequent consultation to be sure that they eat regularly and normally and to catch the significance of symptoms that might mean activity of the ulcer or other indigestion. The diabetic needs regular review of his diet, his insulin dose, his general status. The old man who has had a stroke does better if he is, quote, to restore function in paralyzed muscles or to develop substitute function in others and to face the future without undue fear of other strokes. My experience has been that these and other chronic diseases can be kept from progressing or can be kept at tolerable levels and patients can be maintained in independent living outside of hospital situations to a surprising degree by regular visits to a geriatric clinic. The difficulties of seeing, hearing, and moving about, which we assume must come with years, make other old people without obvious disease relax their grasp upon objective, vigorous, confident living. They, too, will perform better with suitable mechanical contrivances and with the will to play that comes from ability to play. This is the modern meaning of Juvenal's phrase, mens sana, incorpore sano. A sound mind resides in a sound body. The second function of a geriatric clinic is to offer general guidance to old people. Perhaps few of us enter upon old age with delight. The general custom is to shudder as we enter each decade, starting with age 30, and to have well-developed fears by age 60 that we are losing, or soon will lose, mental competence. We picture the farther reaches of age as a twilight darkening into night. But the facts are not as bad as fancy. A recent statistical survey of nearly 8,000 men and women over 61 years of age who were studied on the medical service of my hospital over a period of 30 years revealed that only 2% had senile psychosis. 12 to 15% more had arteriosclerotic psychoses, and about 10% had temporary psychoses in relation to serious bodily disease. Most of the rest of these individuals, around 70%, were normal mentally or depressed or disturbed by their circumstances. The reactive depression, then, looms as a big hazard to normal functioning in old age. The loss of a spouse, the loss of family or friends, the loss of a way of life, the loss of a job or economic independence, the necessity for a resort to charity, lack of resources to express an aptitude or make new attachments to life, preoccupation with pain or difficult breathing, inadequate care and illness, inadequate contact with surroundings, due to poor eyes and ears, are a few of the causes. Malnutrition, whether from disease, from poverty, from faulty habits, or loss of appetite due to sadness or lack of incentives to eat, adds to the depression. The vicious circle is made to spin faster by sympathetic friends and physicians who take old people at their face value and say, at your age, what can you expect? The geriatrician knows that empathy is better than sympathy. He has the difficult task of looking through both ends of a telescope at the same time. He focuses as sharply as he can upon the mental and physical disease of his old client, and he does all that is possible to improve it. And he uses a wide-angle lens upon the total circumstances of the person who has the disease. He knows that satisfactory adjustments to persistent disabilities and deficits may be attained only after the patient's general health is attended to, or after life has again come to have value and interest for him. Happy degrees of recovery are possible at every age, but the best results are to be obtained among persons in early old age. Here is a field of preventive medicine that is currently practically untilled. No geriatrician can do it all alone. His clinic must provide him with many resources, or he must have access to them. In or near the geriatric clinic there must be a psychologist who can assess the capacity and the mental status of an old person accurately and without bias. Only thus will mistakes be avoided which arise from acceptance of his impractical daydreams or from dismay with his present situation. In other words, harm can be done by untutored uplift as well as by a faint-hearted spirit. One who dares to advise an old person must know the facts, good and bad, and abide by them. Next, the clinic must have access to means for re-education. Some education can be directed toward new jobs, to the development of hobbies and handcrafts. Adult education courses in public schools and as private ventures are available for a few. They will have to be directed more particularly to old people if they are to fulfill their needs. Old people need general education, too. We must remember that education is a drawing out process, an unfolding that can be made to last as long as life lasts. It is most effective in association with others. Public library lectures have been shown to be useful in Cleveland. I hope eventually that regular classroom work can be instituted for old people who wish replenishment and reactivation of their minds. The geriatric clinic must have an agency that can place old people in jobs. Normal old people wish to work, to be useful, to be independent as long as possible. Those who do not have a psychological or physical impediment worthy of correction. Present difficulties in finding employment for old people demand solutions. For denial of work means sentencing an old person to charity and its psychological trauma, or to existence on savings and pensions with isolation from active society. Retirement is a common source of serious depression. The clinic must concern itself with the living situations of old people. They must find quarters for them where they can have harmonious contacts with others. Where they can be assisted to maintain independent homes by making housekeeping and shopping easy. It must see to it that optimal diets are possible, and that appetite is stimulated by sociability. These are difficult goals to meet and lead us to plan for special housing facilities for old people. The clinic and its program for rehabilitation must also seek to provide social association for those who have lost family and friends. Therefore, it is interested in the formation of clubs, in churches, schools, and other neighborhood locations. It tries to find opportunities for physical play on public playgrounds and parks, and in square dances and bowling alleys. And it hopes to promote reasonable vacations in the country or on the seashore. These are the tools for general guidance out of depressions which are found in old age. All these activities are slanted toward the poor because there are so many of them. It must be recognized, however, that the independent and wealthy are equally in need of rehabilitation and the means to procure it. And it cannot be emphasized too often that our attention should be directed primarily toward preventing and repairing the breaks, which produce physical and personal deterioration in old age. The third function of the geriatric clinic is research and teaching. The field of geriatric research is broad, as I have shown. It involves studies along social, psychological, educational, occupational, recreational, and financial lines. In the more narrow field of medicine, the clinic must collect statistics on the incidence of diseases and disabilities of all kinds in old age, and discover their important interrelationships. They are profuse and valuable in pediatrics. They must produce a new medical history form. Because the old patient's past experience with accidents and operations and disease mean much in his current standing. And because his family relationships, occupation, education, social resources, living arrangements, food habits, and daily schedules show what he is. It takes an hour to produce a good history on a middle-aged patient. It takes four or more interviews of an hour each to produce one on an old patient. It is time well spent. It is indeed indispensable if the patient is to receive intelligent care. In the physical examination, the clinic needs to study the significance of such items as changes in body weight, changes in blood pressure, variations in vital capacity, the sensitivity of the carotid sinus, the status of the peripheral circulation, and the integrity of the main nerve pathways in addition to the usual complete survey. In the laboratory, the clinic wishes to obtain data that will help to identify anemia and diabetes early, and buy x-ray films to pick up any form of pulmonary tuberculosis. Therapeutically, the clinic can study proper methods of caring for minor illnesses and for persistent diseases and disabilities. And it can learn what happens over a long period of time to old people who are supported in their illnesses and their total situations. At present, our textbooks contain little information and much misinformation on these points. Pharmacologically, the clinic studies the differences caused by age in dosages of drugs and the selection of sedatives and analgesics. All of these projects are planted most fruitfully in research and teaching institutions. They have the resources and equipment and workers, and they have the drive and the critical capacity which the geriatric clinic needs to share. In them, the geriatricians can secure opportunities to supervise the care of old patients on the hospital wards, as well as in the outdoor department. And in them, medical students, house officers, nurses, social workers, physiotherapists, dieticians, and others can come to understand old people. But chronic disease does not attract temporary researchers who wish short problems. And old people are so complex in individuals that they usually overwhelm beginners in medicine. I have not been able to produce a single disciple so far. Discounting personal inadequacies, I blame this failure on the youth of medical students and the fact that I do not yet have the clinic services in full operation. When we do, I have confidence that we can employ the services of students of all sorts for short periods and make the experience an exciting and rewarding one for them. But since there are so many old people in every locality, it seems proper to suggest that geriatric clinics be established in every general hospital that has clinics. They should also be placed in community health centers. And when we get them in old age housing projects and old age centers. The more of them there are, the more adequate will be our real knowledge of the problems of aging, and the more we can claim that there is a science and art called geriatrics. As to personnel, the geriatric clinic needs first of all a physician willing to study chronic disease and the wide-ranging influences that bear upon old age. Without him there is no clinic. He ought not to be so hard to find now that we are beginning to realize the functions of the clinic. The second indispensable worker in the clinic is the social service worker. She knows much more of the human side of old people than doctors do. And she can unlock the community resources that are available. The other members of the team can be borrowed on part-time from the hospital or parent organization. They are a clinic secretary, a laboratory technician, a dietician, physiotherapist, and a psychologist. A nurse is necessary if much treatment is done or if supervision is extended to the homes of the patients. My friends object to all this saying that they are more geriatricians than I am because they take care of more old people than I do. And that there are so many oldsters that we must rely upon the general practitioner to do the job. Granted. But this assumes that there are enough general practitioners. That they are alert to the problems of age and vigorous in their attack upon them. The general practitioner learns his pediatrics from child specialists and clinics for children. We must produce clinics and specialists that can supply him with a comparable body of information on patients at the other end of life. It is also objected that all this is highly theoretical and complicated and that it presupposes a non-existent faith in the value of old age and a degree of cooperation from old people that is doubtful. I agree only that these ideas are not yet demonstrated in operation. I contend that they are sound, that the faith and age can be evoked in most of us, and that old people will respond when they find understanding guides. It is hard work for it must be done with individuals, not with large groups. And it does not always succeed. But it is satisfying work and the quality will improve. Finally, it is objected that the clinic is very expensive. It need not be so at first. Even with all the workers and resources that have been mentioned, the annual expenses will be met in terms of community cost by the rescue of no more than a score of old people from charity and their restoration to economic independence. Then the claims of Robert Browning's Rabbi Ben Ezra would not seem absurd. To summarize, the functions of a geriatric clinic are first, to restore, preserve, and extend physical fitness between illness and in spite of disease. Second, to restore, preserve, and extend mental fitness in spite of apparent barriers. And third, to conduct research and teaching in the problems of age. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Much praise to you, Dr. Monroe. Perhaps it would be well if I repeated some remarks I made this morning. That all of this hearing, all of the speeches from start to finish are being recorded over wire recorders, over radio station WNYC. And they'll be given out over the radio to the general public in the course of the next few days. Second, I might repeat that a stenographic record of the whole proceedings being taken down by the Senate stenographer. Copies of that transcript, it'll be a complete transcript, are very expensive and we can't send them to people. But they will be available for inspection either at my Newburgh office or Albany office after a few days and after the stenographers have had a chance to transcribe their notes. And the third statement is that we have the mimeograph copies of some, not all, of the speeches. They're now at the press table here, primarily for the use now of the newspaper men and newspaper women present. But after the hearing adjourns tonight, such of the copies of these papers as have been taken by the newspaper men will be available for any of you that may wish to have them. Our next speaker will be Dr. Frederick D. Zeman, Chief of Service of the Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews in New York City. Dr. Zeman will discuss the physician's contribution to a statewide program for the agent. Dr. Frederick D. Zeman, Chief of Service of the Home for Aged and Infirmes in New York City. Dr. Frederick D. Zeman, Chief of Service of the Home for Aged and Infirmes in New York City. When I first became interested in these problems, old age was something that happened to the other fellow. In the years 25 to be exact, and the lapse since then, the implications are becoming more personal. Only recently, I ran into a college classmate whom I had not met since those remote college days. He looked me over very carefully and said, yes, yes, I remember you very well. Black hair and no glasses. I admitted reluctantly, he was right. Black hair and no glasses. Now, this simply serves to point out how personal all these problems are. It serves to make clear that no matter how much we are interested in these problems, as professional men and women, and as citizens, we are nevertheless members of the human race in good standing, we hope. And as to our chances of becoming old, the statisticians can prove very conclusively how good they are as of the year 1949. Now, in discussing these problems, I am often reminded of the epigram of Sir James Crichton Brown, an eminent English psychiatrist who lived to the ripe age of 98 years himself. He died only in 1938. Sir James Crichton Brown is responsible for the following gems. There is no shortcut to longevity. To win it is the work of a lifetime. He is also responsible for another that I have always enjoyed quoting, and that is this. Old age begins in the cradle, but youth lingers in decrepitude. Now, the practicing physician is deeply concerned with the precocious signs of aging and also with the signs of useful errors in old people. We have devoted a great deal of time as a profession to these studies over the years, over hundreds or even thousands of years, I may say. But it is only within the last 50 years that we have been able to cope with them at all successfully. And it is really only within the last 25 or 30 years that we have come to realize their very, very important significance for us. I think I can explain that best to you by pointing out that the word geriatrics is an extremely useful word gathering into a short space a number of varying concepts. But the word geriatric should not be interpreted to mean that the care of the agent is necessarily a medical specialty. Actually, all the medical specialties, with the obvious exception of pediatrics and obstetrics, have to do with old people in one way or another. Furthermore, it must be realized that these problems are increasing so rapidly that we may reasonably expect that the care of the agent is going to, in a very short time, comprise 75 to 85 percent of what we call internal medicine. And it is therefore worthwhile today to discuss what the physician's responsibility is in relation to these problems and to point out the complexity of the problems, point out the many ways in which physicians come into the picture, and furthermore, to point out something of what physicians have been doing in this state and throughout the nation. Now, about two years ago, I spoke before the annual conference of the New York State Conference on Social Welfare at Buffalo on a statewide program for the agent and the front we give. At that time, I drew up, as much for my own information as for the information of my audience, a diagram which indicates the setup or the possible setup of a statewide program. Now, these have been distributed to some of you, I think, and I have brought them up again here today not as an alternative to the very wise proposals of Senator Desmond's committee, but rather to illustrate to you how very complicated this whole problem is and how many agencies are involved in it today and how many agencies are working on it, sometimes at cross purposes. Now, I have been very fortunate in my own training. I was taken in hand at an early age by a very remarkable group of social workers associated with the Welfare Council of New York City, and I was very glad to see one of them here on the program today, Ms. Jane Hoey, but among the others I may mention with the highest respect, I mean, Ms. Mary Jarrett, the author of that classic work on chronic illness in New York City, Mrs. Alice Flexner Rothblatt, who for many years guided the section on old age of the Welfare Council, Ms. Ollie Randall of the Community Service Society, and Mrs. Emma Weill-Louis of the Home for Aid and Infirm Hebrews. Now, I was stimulated because these very capable women came to me and asked me questions I didn't know the answer to. And there's nothing more humiliating for a physician than to be put into that spot. And through their efforts and through their continued queries, I was led to go further into the social service aspect of these problems than many of my confers have done. I therefore became a convert to two fundamental principles in community organization as regards old age and as regards the public welfare in general. One is the general principle of the Welfare Council as a coordinating agency for all the activities in a community. And secondly, the principle of a central bureau for the care of a particular group in the community. I was helpful a few years ago in setting up such a central bureau for the care of the Jewish agent in New York City. And this bureau has been functioning under the capable direction of Ms. Flora Fox with the assistance of my good friend Dr. Isidore Gerber for a period of years now. And it serves as a central area, a central office where old people in need of assistance can not only find information, they can be examined, their functional capacities can be determined, and advice is given to them on the basis of a careful medical and social service study. And they are in turn serve as intake agencies for the 18 or 20 Jewish homes for the aged in the city. Now, if you will look at this diagram that I have set up, you will find on the topmost level the legislature of the state, the governor, the senate, and the assembly as the elected representatives of the people, and in association with them on this highest level, I have placed the state department of health, the state department of social welfare, the state department of mental hygiene, and the state medical society. These groups would send, according to my plan, delegates to a state council for the aged and the chronically ill. The state council would work in each community through a local council or welfare council for the aged and chronically ill. And you will be interested to see how many agencies in each community would naturally share in the work of the local welfare council. you find immediately hospital social service departments, private social welfare agencies, the Red Cross, the visiting nurse association, the county medical society, city or county health departments, city or county public welfare departments, and mental hygiene agencies. Now that's a very large and a very diverse group, and it's a, each one of them is particularly interested in certain aspects of the care of the aged, and each one of them has a definite and important contribution to make. Therefore, their coordination, the integration of their activities, the elimination of overlapping is something that we must try as citizens to encourage and to endeavor to accomplish. These agencies working together would then set up a central bureau, and that central bureau would have a medical staff and a social service staff. It would operate outpatient departments very much on the order that Dr. Monroe so successfully operates at the Brigham in Boston. They would also operate recreational agencies for the aged, which have been so successfully pioneered in this city by the Department of Public Welfare under the leadership of Mr. Harry Levine. Sheltered workshops would also be one of their functions, but I want you to particularly realize the other agencies that would be involved here. The general hospitals, public and private, the general hospitals have, as Dr. Monroe just pointed out, a tremendous stake in the care of the aged. The population of the patients in the general hospitals is steadily increasing. Two of the men on the staff at Bellevue not long ago wrote an extremely interesting statistical study of just one service at Bellevue Hospital under the very stimulating title The Patients Are Older and Stay Longer. Now, the private homes for the aged, the state hospitals for the mentally sick, the university medical schools also fit into this picture and it would be necessary to include also state hospitals for chronic illness, a state gerontology research laboratory, a state home care program, and special housing for the aged and chronically ill. Now, as you see, many of these agencies are already in existence. It would be necessary to create certain new ones such as a state gerontology research laboratory, state hospitals for chronic illness I believe are on the way. They have been highly recommended by the health preparedness commission of this state. The state home care program is something that we should give a great deal of attention to. It is actually the hope of the future for the care of the aged. We have set up such a home care project at the Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews under the auspices of the Central Bureau for the Jewish Aged and in cooperation with the Jewish Family Service, particularly their homemaker service. And under our home care or extramural program as we prefer to call it more accurately, we provide for old people in their own homes visiting physicians, visiting social workers, visiting nurses in cooperation with the Visiting Nurse Association, visiting house workers or homemakers, volunteers, and we hope in time to supply visiting occupational therapists and visiting volunteer visitors. Now, as I say, and as Dr. Monroe pointed out, the number of old people is increasing so rapidly that institutional care is no longer possible, even if it were desirable. It certainly is not desirable, except for people who can only be taken care of in institutions, people who are handicapped or chronically ill in one way or another. Our whole effort must be to expand this home care program. But I want to say that however attractive theoretically this home care program is, it presents certain difficulties from the standpoint of the mental attitude of the prospective client. We have found in our experience that when old people come to us asking admission to the home, they only do so after they have spent long hours of soul searching, long hours of study and discussion with members of the family, and when they have finally made up their mind they want to go into an institution, they will not be put off with a substitute program. It is therefore extremely necessary for us to educate the public to the needs and values of a home care program. And one of the ways in which we do that is to assure to our home care clients that when the time comes that they need the institutional care, they will have a first priority on admission to the institution. Now I'd like to go on and tell you at length some of the work that we're doing at the Home Grace and Infirm Hebrews, which I'm sure would be of extreme interest to you all, but it actually is not on my topic. And I want to, as far as possible, stick to the discussion of where the physician comes in to this picture. And I want to particularly point out that the physicians of the, this city, the physicians of the nation are deeply and profoundly interested and aware of these problems. I, too, have had the same experience that Dr. Monroe has had with colleagues who seem to think that they can still practice on what they learned in medical school about old people and who seem to think that there is nothing more that they can learn even today. I have also had the experience of being treated with rather poorly concealed contempt and condescension by some of my colleagues who cannot understand how I can possibly be interested in old people. Actually, these men are missing out on one of the great experiences of a physician's life if they have never had the opportunity of taking care of old people. Because whereas the young person takes everything for granted and accepts it as a matter of course, the older person is so used to being pushed around by his family, by his employer, that when he meets a physician who brings to him the sympathy and understanding that Dr. Monroe does, for instance, I mean, he is a little bit put off his balance. He doesn't know just how to take it. And his gratitude is something that is really very touching and something that puts the physician distinctly on his mettle and makes him feel that this is a human being for whom he must put forth his very best efforts. As Dr. Monroe pointed out, today we are able to do the most amazing things for old people. For years we were told that the increasing expectation of life was due entirely to the improvement in the health conditions in the younger age groups. Today that is no longer true. The control of the infections of old age by the antibiotics has changed the picture completely. The death rate from pneumonia has dropped spectacularly. A fatality from diseases like a disease like irisipolis is almost unheard of nowadays. And it is possible to treat infections of the genitourinary tract so common in prostatic disease, infections of peritoneal cavity with the greatest success. And surgery is going forward by leaps and bounds. There was a time not so long ago when a surgeon who would operate on a patient 70 years or over would have been looked at askance by his colleague as one who had an itching scalpel. Today, it is a common place in our hospitals to operate on patients over 80 and operate on them successfully. And the two most important things that contributed to that are improved anti-operative and post-operative care, improved anesthesia, and the use of antibiotics and the abundant use of blood and plasma. Now, the physician's responsibility in this program is one of great complexity. He has a responsibility as an individual, in his private practice. He has a responsibility in his institutional work as a physician in the general hospital, in the hospital for chronic diseases, and in homes for the ages. Homes for the ages, as at present constituted, form a great area for the ambitious young physician to make his reputation. The homes for the ages represent a great area of clinical material, medical care, and the people who are in the hospital, which is for the most part completely untapped and untouched by physicians of an investigative turn of mind. And with the support of forward-looking boards of trustees, such as I have the privilege of working with at the home phrase, and infirm Hebrews, under such boards of intelligent lay people, laboratories will be provided which will make it possible for physicians to conduct not only first-rate bedside work, but investigative work of real value. Now, the physician in industry has a great responsibility to old people, because it is up to the physician to decide what a man's functional capacity really is. Because, as this committee has so wisely publicized, birthdays really don't count. It's what a man can do that counts. And we speak of that as his functional capacity. And it does not parallel the number of years that you've spent upon this earth. Now, the physician has a great responsibility for education. At the home phrase and infirm Hebrews, we conduct a course for graduate physicians, have for the past five years, in geriatrics, for graduate physicians. And with my colleagues, we give about 18 sessions each semester under the auspices of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, given partly at the home and partly at the Mount Sana Hospital. And the registration is gradually increasing. Although, I must say that the biggest registration we had was in the first two years after the war when men could take the course under the GI Bill of Rights. Now, in addition, at the home, we have an affiliation with the Division of Nursing Education of Teachers College, Columbia University. University. And I think it's greatly to the credit of the nursing educators that they realize that the work of the professional nurse from now on is going to be so largely the care of old people. We started off four or five years ago with just a single lecture to these graduate nurses studying for higher degrees at Teachers College, College, and that has now been expanded to a two weeks period in each semester, one week of which is devoted to working with in our occupational therapy department, and the second week devoted to working with our nurses and on our physicians taking care of old people. In addition, we now have student nurses sent down just merely for a brief visit at the home from the St. Luke's Hospital and the Presbyterian Hospital, which shows that these teachers of nurses, even undergraduate nurses, appreciate the significance of the problem. Now, the need for research does not have to be emphasized or enlarged upon. We have gone a long ways, but there are still many, many important, significant, basic, fundamental problems to be explored. The support of research in this field must be forthcoming for us to make continued progress. And that brings me to the significance of the physician's responsibility as a member of the organized medical profession, as a member of his county, state, and national organizations. organizations. And these national organizations are also doing their part. The American Medical Association has cooperated with the American Public Health Association and two other national organizations in setting up the Committee on the Care of the Chronically Ill, which is about to start functioning under the leadership of Dr. Morton Levin, late of the New York State Department of Health, and the Executive Secretary of the Health Preparedness Commission. The New York State Society has a subcommittee on geriatrics headed by Dr. Stephen Monteith, and the New York County Medical Society has a committee on geriatrics headed by Dr. C. Ward Crampton, who I understand spoke here this morning. So that I think that you will realize then that these problems of the agent require the intense and hearty cooperation of the physician, the professional social worker, and the professional nurse for their adequate solution and for the proper functioning of any kind of a setup that is devised for their solution. And I think it's interesting to realize that the very first graduate fortnight of the New York Academy of Medicine, which took place in 1928, under the stimulation of the late Dr. Ludwig Kast of this city, was devoted to problems of aging. And at that meeting, some of the leading authorities in this country and from England spoke and really gave the first impetus to the scientific studying of aging in this country, which culminated some 11 or 10 or 11 years later in the publication of Dr. E.V. Cowdery's symposium, a large and imposing volume called Problems of the Aging, which has gone through a second edition, is about to go into a third edition, and which actually forms the Bible and reference book of physicians working in this field. This topic is so rich that one could go on for a long time, but I am just simply going to close on the note that the Senate and the Assembly of the State of New York, as represented by Senator Desmond and his fellow committee members can count on the wholehearted support of the individual physicians of this state, as well as their organized medical society. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Dr. James M. Dunn, Assistant Chief of the Physical Medicine Rehabilitation Division of the United States Veterans Administration. Dr. Dunn will discuss the Veterans Administration and Geriatrics. Mr. Desmond, ladies and gentlemen, I think that those of our fellow citizens who are taking a hasty departure show great wisdom. I do want to congratulate you, however, on listening to a great mass of very scientific material. It has been a real pleasure to have sat here today and to have listened to all the eminent speakers bringing forth angles to be considered in the care of the aging, which ordinarily one individual would not think of in his review of the subject. Dr. James M. Dunn, Assistant I regret very much, Senator, that Dr. Magnuson, the Chief Medical Director of the Veterans Administration, could not be with us today, and he wanted me to bring along to him, to you, his best wishes, and to let me admit. I shall make this very brief since time is of the essence. Do not worry about these 50 pages, because I'm only going to make notes on three. Modern medicine and the modern standard of living have raised the life expectancy to a new high level, or is it that we of this generation use unusual judgment in choosing our grandfathers and grandmothers? That is a possible factor, subject for research and further study. This trend is continuing. It has resulted in an intensification of all problems that have to do with the aging population. Now, after all, if one spends 20 or 25 years of his life in getting ready for his vocation, and then at an arbitrary age limit, is told that he must cease working in that field, obviously the productive years of his life are artificially and drastically limited. Throughout the history of the United States, yes, throughout the history of legal development and constitutional rights, the entire Anglo-Saxon race, back to the Battle of Hastings, the United States, we have always felt that the individual counts, and that the state is for the individual and not the reverse. the United States, his responsibilities, his rights are co-equal. There is no right without a corresponding responsibility. And that is the thing I'm afraid that we do not always emphasize quite as much as we ought to, when we emphasize the rights of the agency, or the rights of any other citizen. rights, responsibilities, should be, and are, constitutionally co-equal. It has been said that the average individual utilizes about 15% of his medical and physical capacity. It would seem, therefore, that even in an aging population, there should be enough of a residual of the other 85% not ordinarily used, to give the aging person an opportunity to do some of the things that he wants to do. The normal individual wants to work, so that he may support himself and his dependents, and make his contributions to his community. If he doesn't, he isn't normal. He will not labor the point of what is normal. We take it in the common accepted session. If he doesn't. We take it in the close-up to the long-term future. Because in the foreseeable future, according to present retirement future, it is estimated that about 40% of the population will be 45 years old or older. Some people give that figure, that date as about 1980. Now, obviously, present economic trends do more than seem to indicate that relatively few people will be able to acquire enough means to support themselves adequately during a lengthened expectancy after retirement. That, I think, is very significant. Consequently, the working half of the population will be shadowed with an intolerable burden to taxation or otherwise, because after all, the funds do not come from some parts. That is the thing that we have to think of in going into this entire question of these Asian populations. Now, women in careers outside of their homes, and you notice that I went to a meeting down in Washington the other day where somebody made the mistake of calling the goddesses of the household housewives. And he was promptly told that they were not outside of their home. That is a career. Women in careers outside of the home, they saw, present similar problems. Women who sold careers, centered in the home, usually continue in their life location until they attain their full expectancy. They tend to slow down gradually and naturally. Perhaps that's the reason why the expectancy of women is generally greater than that of men. However, it is a scheme that aging men and women, aging men and career women, have the inherent right to continue in gainful, pleasant, and constructive occupations as long as they live, provided they are physically and mentally able to do so. This does not necessarily mean the vocation they followed all their lives. It might well be an ab-vocation of the person in this discussion. Such occupations may well be an ab-vocation. One who has been able to apply a competence should be free to pursue the activities of the story. However, he too should pursue a regular, productive occupation, if he so too. Many aging people are happy when they are able to earn the means over and above whatever they've been able to save, whatever pensions they've earned. They're very glad to have an opportunity to earn more, enough, I would, to make it in their own home. It seems that they should be going to be the opportunity to do. Now the aging who are not mentally and physically sick, and not able to supply their own substance or any part of it, are entitled to have medical care that modern medicine is possible is able to give them. This should be done through hospitals, to rehabilitation centers, to outpatient services, to home care, to private practice, any way that they begin, so long as they get the same standard of medical care. Now that's the point that I want to say just one word about. I have been a physician and tried to practice that's the beginning of the last World War, ever since the end of the First World War. And I know the philosophy of the physician. He's out to earn his way through life by creating as much public as he goes along, as he is capable of doing. The cornerstone of his ethical conduct is always and ever that which informs the welfare of the people. I say that here because I feel that these different parts of the police that we had in the provinces of the region, every one of which has a valid value. I've learned a lot here today. A lot of constructive ideas. Couldn't take exception to one of them. But the matter is that the catalytic agent that makes that crucible contains all those different ideas and plans, will only make the correct physiological reaction if a catalytic is correct. And that's how we say the moral fact. The moral fact. The attitude of the people who give that particular information. Isn't enough to have a gorgeous plan about hospital construction. That's to have the human elements. These people that are aging and failing to die and to get, are individuals. And there are no two alike in the world. And there are no two alike in the world. They are individuals. And it is necessary. I can remember when I first started to practice seeing some of the remnants of 16 table stations. And I've seen that the finest and the most successful young and the most successful businesses. And I have seen that throughout the end of the day of the day of the old fashion-esque job. And see the marvelous of them. And I've had these powerful experiments on occasions. And I can talk to you now even though you're not all doctors because I know you're all friends and want success to the people. Where I haven't seen quite as good surgery done in a most modernly equipped hospital operation. Now that isn't the rule. And that day I think it's for the most part passed. Because the medical societies in the different communities are very jealous of the type of medical insurance that care their patients get. And no longer is it possible for anything except the best kind of surgery to be done. So that there is a lot of use of this thought. And I think it's worthwhile thinking about. That no matter how good an operating room is. How good a plan is. A medical chair. How good the social service aspects are. And their applications. They're no better than the people we handle. That means you and it means you. It means you and it means you. You've got to have that thing back in. You've got to have that cornerstone of the ethics of the care of the sick. Whether it's the sick now or the potential sick. If you're trying to prevent from getting ill. That's the cornerstone of medical life. The welfare of the sick. Now the AGs who are not physical and medical sick. Therefore should have those things to be made. And we said that the pension systems have something. And the possibility of developing crafts in different localities. With the steps of work being done by the US public health care. And the activities of the veterans administration. The various state hospital systems. Citizens committees. Any idea that anybody has. It might be constructive. Should all be studied with a view. To approaching. This entire property. With an integrated token. Not just as the last speaker said. An effort over here that might be very good. And another one that. It should be focused on the same idea. And I think. I had the place to talk to Dr. Eegis. Down in Washington. He was an endless man that he was there up in. He was up here I think. He was a colleague at the University of Georgia. And he gave me a research of the work that he did at that time. And he is absolutely thrilled about the possibility. But he shares with the rest of us. The thought that we must not have part of a solution. We must study it thoroughly. And do the whole thing. Very very thoroughly. We've got two more minutes. Now the veterans administration. Is concerned with this problem in geriatrics. And we're trying to do something about that segment of the population. Whom we have as patient. It's significant that in 1940. There were 16,000. I beg your pardon. 16,000 domiciliary members. In the domiciliary homes of the veterans administration. Now they were gathered in from a population. A veteran population at that time. Of approximately four million. Now if we should make an equation. 16,000 is to eight million. As X is to 18,500,000. Which is the present that we know. What would you get to be as to the number of beds we would need. Twenty years from now. If the present standards of admission to domiciliary homes apply. Well. We don't know what changes will be made. We don't have all the questions. Our particular rehabilitative procedures. We are now working out in the veterans administration. And according to our hospital patients. Are going to be. But roughly between 75,000 and 80,000. If the same criteria for admission to domiciliary homes apply then as they do now. The hospital size. We have at the present time 112,000 beds. The veterans administration hospital. And despite the fact that 75% of the patients. Who are present in the hospital. Are from World War II. That's right at that time. Yet the average age of the veterans is just five. Which means of course WWI comes in. World War I. Twenty years hence. The average age of the veterans entitled hospital. Domenclary and outpatient care. Will place them definitely among the aging segments of the population. The veterans administration. Is trying to study this problem. We haven't time to go into the details of what we do with our rehabilitation process. We try to get a man back to the job he was trained for. Or another one. If the care. If the type of his illness is such that he can't go back to the job he had. We are trying to solve. Parts of the geriatric problem. Before it happens. What happened. With the younger group. Of our veterans patients. And I may say. That. We are having. A fair degree of success. And if there was more time. I'd be glad to go into it with you. But. You don't have the time. I must close. You have. Now. Consideration. In all these things. Of the intrinsic. Human values. That have been. Stressed here. So beautifully. Today. The dignity. The dignity. The dignity. The individual. Isn't the neuro psychiatric case. Or orthopedic case. Or a geriatric case. He's a man or a woman. With individual dignity. And right. And right. And beauty. And it's our business. To see to it. That we do not blame our good industrial people. Because they cannot continue a man when he's no longer able to do a job. And doing all his life. In the physical field. But we do have a challenge. To see if we cannot find some way where he might be. Allocated to a less strenuous job. Physically and mentally. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. And. stadia. And. John. And. Thank you. Mr. Ledy. King. And. Where. He might. By means of. Making. Making. He Pode. Pete from. Um. He Hunger. He Bams. Down on. The Long Island. Coats. Are picking cranberries. And making cranberry sauce. I'd und Pat. To. That are untapped in our local community Now those are some of the ways in which you can do this now Considering the intrinsic human value the dignity of the individual and the love of home With all its family associations and a man's house being his own castle and And the connotation of that thought on the future of the state and nation Yes on the world makes it imperative that we pause before we embark upon an expansive and costly plan of constructing public institutions to house the growing aging segment of the population as a substitute for the traditional home which after all Is the foundation of our way of life At this season of the year When I always think very fondly of the Christmas Carol that Charles Dickens wrote I join with him in all this work and with all the people who have spoken here today in the affirmation That mankind is our business I'm very grateful to you Dr. Dunn And I'm pleased to hear from Mr. William Posner Chairman of the conference group on welfare of the aged of the welfare council of New York City Mr. Posner will discuss what New York City is doing for its elderly Mr. Chairman with your permission I'd like to cut a good deal of the paper And because of the lightness of the hour I'm sure that will be appreciated And just point out some of the essential parts that I wanted to convey Any description of what New York City is doing for its elderly must take into consideration The activities of the welfare council the agency which has major responsibility For citywide planning and coordination In the welfare council social agencies have found a common meeting ground for the discussion and study of the problems of older people And in many instances the council has served as a catalytic agent in facilitating the implementation of programs by these agencies Although not essentially an operating agency itself the council has nevertheless initiated projects later taken over by others Represented in its membership are sectarian as well as non-sectarian agencies Private and public agencies alike all working together for the general welfare of the community The welfare council was among the first organizations to establish an information bureau for the aged as an aid to aged persons seeking information about facilities It established a reporting system to inform member agencies of vacancies, admissions, rejections, and duplicate applications This reporting system was later taken over by the state department of social welfare The welfare council was active in the legislative area by helping to pass and later to draft amendments to the original old age assistance legislation The council developed a statement of minimum standards for homes for the aged which became a model for use throughout the country Through constant revisions it has had wide national and international use This important statement had the effect not only of raising standards of existing homes for the aged But served as a basis for the development of new institutions The council worked relentlessly for the employment of trained social workers and other personnel in homes for the aged It arranged for a course in mental hygiene for the aged for lay on professional workers It worked closely with the New York state and city housing authorities in an effort to make special provision For older persons in public housing projects as a result of this collaboration As a result of this collaboration 50 apartments were planned and provided in the Ford green housing project in Brooklyn for elderly persons As far as is known no similar public facilities for the elderly exist elsewhere in the United States This is a real tribute to the public officials responsible for this development In the area of recreation for the older person The welfare council was among the first to recognize the need for such programs And has given help and guidance to public and private agencies alike In addition the council has since 1947 sponsored an annual hobby show for persons over 60 The third annual hobby show in 1949 had 854 individual participants And was seen by more than 15,000 persons This project has had the effect of pointing dramatically to the recreation needs of older persons At the present time New York City is concentrating its efforts on four major areas of interest Housing, employment, chronic illness and recreation With respect to housing it is worth noting that the building plans of many homes for the aged Are now coming to fruition It is expected that within the coming year Approximately 500 additional beds will have been provided in institutions for the aged In addition this year we'll probably see the expansion of the apartment project idea This as you know makes it possible for older persons to live in the privacy of institution sponsored apartments An interesting experiment in foster homes for the aged is likewise going on This has demonstrated the feasibility of keeping those older persons who do not want institutional placement in the community Similarly there has been an expansion of home care projects for older persons by hospitals, homes for the aged and family welfare agencies Although housing facilities are of immense importance to older persons There is perhaps nothing which contributes more to the dignity and self-respect of the older person than employment Through which they can contribute to their own maintenance and needs Educating prospective employers and the community at large to the advantages of employing an older person Is a struggle which is no less New York than other communities This is an area that one group Or even many high-minded groups cannot in and of themselves tackle It is a problem that requires the concentrated coordinated and cooperative efforts of the private agency Government, industry, labor and other community agencies for solution It is our feeling that in this sphere the state through its established facilities can play a role of real leadership It must be recognized however that serving the older person in employment requires special skills and special training It is our feeling that once specially trained staff is made available They can function and give help to older persons through the existing employment and placement facilities of the state The care of the chronically ill is receiving attention on many fronts Chronic illness is a scourge that affects persons of all ages The welfare council's concern with the need for special care for this group of our population Was instrumental in the setting up of new facilities for them The council's nursing home study completed in 1947 Recommended the development of visiting housekeeper service And other types of home care which could help remove many of the chronically ill from hospitals Where they hardly belong and merely added to the congestion of New York City hospitals This study has been looked to for guidance in the development of new rules and regulations For supervising and licensing nursing homes in this city At the present time the welfare council is engaged in studying one aspect of the problem of the chronically ill This study is concentrating on the chronically ill now living in homes for the aged Which have no hospital facilities It is our hope that this may result in the setting up of standards for the care of these patients in homes for the aged Much thinking is going on in New York City in extending recreational and leisure time activities for the older person The need for such programs has long been established And the welfare council has worked closely with both public and private agencies having such programs There is still however much confusion as to the objectives of such a program To many older persons these activities have become a substitute Or must become a substitute for the lack of employment opportunities To others these programs are ways of filling the need for companionship The definition of objectives is the only way to determine the types of programs to set up As well as the settings in which the programs are to operate There is a growing realization that programs for older persons must become part of the group work program of the community as a whole This means that community centers if they are to serve the total community Must provide for the needs of older persons in the same way that they provide for the youth and young adults A welfare council committee on recreation for the aged is now working actively on many of these problems In pointing up these major areas of activity for the older person We of the welfare council believe that the time has come when a concentration of effort on the part of itself And of social agencies alone is no longer adequate The impact of problems which the community is facing in relation to the older citizen Is such that it requires the attention of the whole community The welfare council is a coordinating agency for social agencies And as such it has its finger on the pulse of the community Social agencies themselves however cannot substitute for the grassroots activities Which local groups and lay councils can initiate and achieve We therefore wish to submit for serious consideration The need for organizing neighborhoods citywide and statewide councils for the elderly These groups can serve as the catalytic agents in bringing to the attention of civic groups and governmental agencies The needs of the aged and stimulate activity by and for them as groups and as individuals To a large extent the joint legislative committee has been very effective in this regard It is important however to plan a continuing and long-range program which the committee has so ably begun In reviewing the past and the present programs for the aged We cannot help but look to the future As time goes on there will undoubtedly be an increase in the number and types of programs It is quite likely that as communities begin to feel the impact of the numbers of older citizens And the need to do something about them Many projects will be embarked upon One would indeed be hard put to deprecate these projects Or to disparage the high-mindedness Which may impel the communities to implement them We should like to submit the proposition That if we are to serve our older citizens intelligently The essential question we must face Is not what type or how many projects is it necessary to set up But rather how are these projects to operate In order for the older person and the community to derive most there from The implications of this question are many Basically it means that once we have become aware of the existence of the need We must analyze and evaluate existing facilities as well as current thinking In order to know how best to meet these needs To say that older persons require recreational activities And that programs are therefore necessary is a statement of the need In considering the implementation of this We will need to know how recreational programs can help older persons A knowledge of this how will make it possible for us to know better what type of facility to set up With respect to housing facilities for older persons The same principle must hold true It is fairly generally agreed today That the community must consider very types of facilities for older persons Institutions, apartments, foster homes, and so forth Before however we embark on these programs We must first know how older persons can be cared for in these facilities A knowledge of the how will often make it possible for us to revise our estimate of what to do In these remarks I have indicated in a general way what New York City was doing for its elderly Many of the activities and programs referred to will undoubtedly be spelled out Or have been spelled out more specifically at this hearing By the operating agencies themselves We recognize fully that all that has been done thus far for the older citizens has only scratched the surface There is real need for continued creative thinking in this area Needless to say the joint legislative committee with which the welfare council has maintained closely its own Has contributed immensely to our better understanding of the older person In looking towards the future however we must also evaluate the past and the present And it can truly be said that in relation to its elderly New York City has been in the vanguard Thank you Mr. Posner Our next speaker is Miss Alice M. Loomis Community Consultant on Services to the Agents of the Rochester Council of Social Agencies Mr. Loomis will discuss what can the local community do for its elderly Thank you, Mrs. Desmond Thank you, Mrs. Loomis Mr. President Mr. President When giving me this question What can the local community do for its elderly I think you have put me on the very outpost of the firing line With this in mind, I shall suggest a few answers. First, and very decisively, a community can and must choose its course of action with its older residents. If an act of choice is not made, it may drift into many unrelated projects, all very kind, some glamorous, but with hidden dissatisfaction and the possibility of a tidal wave of unwise appropriation. And then everyone except a few promoters may suffer. A local program for the elderly can be effective only when the local community takes the initiative in formulating a sound program for all of its aging population without regard to social or economic status. Effective service for and with the elderly depends upon a full and sympathetic partnership between the local community and the upper governmental units, with a division of responsibilities very clearly determined. Then, assuming that a community decides to chart its course rather than to drift or to be pressured into action, how does it get started? First, a very few people with vision urgently feel a certain need and get an idea of doing something about it. Other sponsors soon become interested. Golden Age clubs for lonely older people are a very frequent starting point. The imagination that leads to a first step soon reveals numerous other needs, but limited knowledge, time, and funds may discourage the pioneers from attacking all the problems they have brought to light. This is perhaps fortunate, for then other people with confidence in various fields must be drawn in. If these people, all touching different facets of the community, begin to consider a central problem, then a community project will be developed. It is from the cooperative thinking of these leaders that comes to decision as the priority of action. I think we all know what happens when everyone tries to attack everything at once. There must be fundamental agreement on the principle that the program must provide the fullest possible participation of older people. Participation by the elderly was a matter of course in the past, but today it requires a rearrangement of many recent practices. This rearrangement offers a challenge for it is in the local communities that the elderly live, languish, and vote that this challenge must be met. When older persons lack outlets for their energy, response adulte rests upon the community to find suitable opportunities that will help to keep the elderly off the scrappy. For example, even the feeble homebound has found satisfaction in as simple a task as stuffing Christmas seals in envelopes. And most enthusiastically in one place was done in the Jewish home for the aged. The top agenda limits discussion of the application of the principle of participation to recreation, health, housing, and employment. Recreation is the starting point in most communities, but unfortunately in some, it is the limit of the expression of community interest. Three guideposts here may be of assistance. One, the number of older people with leisure is constantly being increased by those who differ from the average old person in the pandemic. They have better health, they have worked shorter hours, had more vacations. But with all the pressure that has been associated with these gains, however, the great need of many of these people is knowing how to enjoy leisure. That is, retraining for leisure. And this is a challenge to the adult education section of our public schools as well as to other parts of our community. These newly retired and soon to be retired people are probably any community's largest reservoir of unused human resources. They have much to give of time and energy. And with their need to make new adjustments, they should be of immense help in the general thinking on the place of the older person in our modern society. For there are no answers in the books. Second, the less active and formerly busy citizens should be kept fully informed of available cultural resources. And this can only be achieved by continuing search and frequent publications. Churches, paternal organizations, libraries, art galleries, museums, the list is long. All have extensions, social service, public relations departments with rich offerings. A senior citizen's calendar compiled by a committee of lay and professional workers is of immense value to any city. Three, there are latent powers in all but the genuinely senile. The response to new paths may be slow and timid. It may deceive some people into thinking they don't want to learn. But the joy of learning, even the simplest thing, is a creative experience that prolongs and deacons life. You have but to visit the occupational therapy department in a home for the dependent aged or the chronically ill to realize what skilled leadership can do to arouse and make fruitful the innate desire to learn. Or visit the camps of the elderly where the pains of sunburn and mosquito bites may replace those of arthritis and heart attacks. A better understanding of the health needs of the aging population will lead to many changes. It may be necessary for the higher governmental levels to assume greater responsibility for the chronically ill and for the research needed to reduce their number. But certainly the community will improve its immediate services as it adopts a more constructive attitude toward the treatment of its aged ill. More and better nursing homes are needed, wherein illness is not presumed to be a prelude to death. In one city, the addition of a physiotherapist to the staff of nursing homes, under the direction of the forward-looking county department of social welfare, is hastening the recovery from such misfortunes as fractures and strokes, thereby accelerating the flow of patients, from the hospital at $11 a day, to nursing homes at $125 monthly, to boarding homes at $75 monthly, and in fortunate cases to their own homes. But every step represents an increase in the independence and the enjoyment of life by an older person, as well as the decrease in the cost of care. In the prevention of mental illness, a community can do much by drawing older people into normal activities. This sounds deceptively simple, and the results may seem at times to be miraculous. An old man in one city, formerly an active, respected citizen, was beginning to sit quietly and stare blankly, entirely withdrawn and apparently ready for a mental institution. He was persuaded to become a day visitor at a home for the aged, where he met men of his own age. He entered into their activities, and shortly an alert old man was searching for a room near the home, where a blind acquaintance could live and share with him the home's activities. Perhaps, skilled casework and a progressive home for the aged were part of the miracle. It cannot be said too often that the physical and mental health of our aging population is conditioned by the physical and mental health program for all ages provided by the local community. Housing for the aged is passing from the public conscience and discussion stage to that of definite civic planning and action. Yet does any city know how much of the living space so sorely needed by younger people is in the large apartments and the large houses that are wearing out old people because there are no small, comfortable quarters for them. Knowledge is not lacking as the kind of housing needed. The morning speaker spoke of this very effectively, so I'm skipping this part of my paper. But the private investment in this type of housing is said to be a sound financial venture. But even without new housing, many people, old people, could remain longer in their own homes if they only had the supplemental housekeeping services to which delusion has already been made. One of the very next steps in many communities, and it could be an immediate step, is the fitting of these supplemental services in with those already established. At least one city in New York State has a local planning commission that's assuming responsibility for a survey of the housing with elderly residents. It's from such definite knowledge that practical housing plans can be developed. I think I shall omit all this unemployment excepting to say that the community still, with all that's being done on the higher governmental level, all the thinking that two people are doing in the fine reports that we are expecting, still leaves the community with many immediate questions. Shall the community offer guidance to the retired person who is contemplating the investment of his life savings in small business? Cannot a business clinic be created for the elderly as well as for the other groups? How can job finding for the elderly be best achieved? To what extent will a sheltered workshop contribute to the well-being of those who no longer can compete with modern business operations? With a better understanding of what can be ahead for each of us, there should certainly be fewer tragedies than that of a university professor who on retirement had been greatly honored for his 40 years of service. His widow startled her associates by saying that the university would be kinder to shoot his, to shoot his retiring professors than to put them on the shelf alive. Also, the local community must explore preparation for retirement. Too frequently the sturdy and productive worker suddenly on retirement finds himself unadjusted to great blocks of free time. And he suffers from the bend by coming too rapidly from the deep waters of a job to the shallows of idleness. It's a major personnel operation by which the employee is helped to appreciate the eventual freedom for many years of responsibility. This may require the development of interest which will give zest for living. Here, leadership must be given by the employing local organization with the assistance of other community resources. No single group can do this alone. Already, two leading industries in one city in your state are attempting to work with such a program that will utilize many of the community's resources. To develop a durable program for the elderly, including new practices in employment and recreation, housing, and health, there is needed an underlying social philosophy. One important method of interpreting this philosophy is the consistent selection and the vivid presentation of news, which portrays needs and how they are being met. An excellent example of this type of reporting was a series of six articles on the various facets of a local program for the elderly published recently in the Rochester Democrat and Chronicle. There is a wealth of material which can be used showing how sound planning and courageous action not only pays in human happiness, but in the long run can save the dollars of taxpayers and contributors. There has been a disposition on the part of many communities to await governmental action to solve the problems of the aging. However, in the communities where responsibility has been assumed and discussion as well as action has been had, interest and financial support increasingly have been offered by local voluntary sources. Within the past year in one city, a long established local organization, the Women's Educational and Industrial Union gave a legacy to the Council of Social Agencies to carry on a project for the development of a comprehensive program for the aged. A community consultant on services to the aged was employed and a community focus established. And then to further enrich this effort, the Junior League gave sufficient funds to the Council for a series of institutes on the aging population. Neither of these generous gifts would have been forthcoming had there not been an organized effort in the community to do something for and with the elderly in their midst. In conclusion, it is becoming increasingly clear that a successful program is dependent upon the courage and the action of local communities in close sympathetic partnership with the state and federal government. Each has its important role to play. In New York State, we are beginning to see a consolidation of effort and there is gradually evolving a program ensuring the elderly both protection as needed and continued opportunity to share in community life. The recent creation of the New York State Association of Councils of Social Agencies and the proposed unofficial State Council for the Elderly will inevitably aid as crystallizing and unifying forces. With the leadership of such legislators as Senator Derson and the members of the Joint Legislative Committee on the Problems of the Aged, the communities in New York State can definitely progress in their efforts to meet the needs of their aging population. Time too often has been overabundant for the elderly. The time for the community after they've made the station is limited. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We are very grateful, dear, Ms. Loomis. We're very grateful, Ms. Loomis. Our next speaker is the last speaker on our scheduled program, and I understand that our march will be quite brief. After that, the committee will stay here, and the stenographer too, as long as anyone wished. You'll have anything presented from the floor which you might wish to present to the committee. I would say that those of you who have things to communicate which you think might better be communicated in writing, that way has many advantages. And any communication sent to me at either Newburgh or Albany, I'm sure I can assure you will be given very careful consideration indeed, both by the members of our research staff and our committee. And of course, we're particularly anxious to have any suggestions for practical legislation which might be adopted by the state. It's now a privilege to present to you Ms. Hester B. Crutcher, Director of Social Work of the New York State Mental Hygiene Department, who will discuss family care for the ages. Thank you, Ms. Hester B. Crutcher, Director of Social Work of the New York State Mental Hygiene Department, and I will try and be very brief because I know this has been a very long meeting. The fiscal authorities of the state of New York, I think, are interested in the family care of mentally ill patients because it saves money as well as because it has human values. We social workers, I think, are interested in it primarily because it has very real values for the individual who is boarded in a foster home. In the state of New York, we have 2,000 patients now boarding in foster homes. Of these, 1,284 are state hospital patients. Now, of the 1,284 who are state hospital patients, 743 were over 60 years of age, as of October 1st, the last time that we have the date on the, uh, the statistics on the ages. Now, 63 of those 784 patients were past 80, and they were living very comfortably and happily in foster homes. Now, let me remind you, these are people who are still psychotic and have been pharmacies of age, as have been mentioned, by the physicians, and yet they have adjusted comfortably and happily, some of them over periods of several years, in the foster homes. Now, we have 714 patients from the state schools for the mentally deficient who are also in foster homes. Of these, only 84 are over 60 years of age. I do not think that's at all strange, because, you know, that the older and, uh, I mean, the higher grade, trainable, mentally defective, do not stay forever in the institution. The, uh, ones who are the lower grade and who are not amenable to training to such an extent, and for whom it is not always possible to make a community arrangement, uh, usually have physical infirmities or stigmata of degeneration or something of the sort, so that their life expectancy is not great, and we don't have so many of those over 60. But I think to have 84 of them, uh, living comfortably in a home is really quite something. So we have a total out of our 2,000 patients in family care of 827 who are over 60. We think that this proves that family care has a good deal to offer for the aged. Now then, if I may briefly, uh, run over just two or three points. In the first place, family care has a very old and honorable history. One of the previous speakers said something about the Battle of Hastings. Family care started in Europe 500 years before the Battle of Hastings. I will not go into the details of its founding. I had no time. It also has a history of, uh, uh, quite a long time in, uh, the United States. Legislation was passed in 1886 in the state of Massachusetts, although they didn't, uh, have any accompanying funds to implement the law for a good many years. In the state of New York in 1935, we were, uh, 1933, we were given permission to place the mentally deficient in family care. In 1935, uh, the, uh, program for the mentally deficient had been so successful that we were allowed to place the mentally ill. Now, since 1935, life has been a little bit hectic and very, uh, very, due to war situations. So we feel that we have never had a chance completely to explore the possibilities of family care, either for the aging groups in our hospitals or for the younger group. Now then, briefly, the selection of the patient for family care is very, very important. The physician selects him, he must be harmless to himself and others, and he also must be ambulatory, and he must be, uh, any of his ailments must be under reasonably good medical control. Then he can usually live, uh, comfortably under close supervision in an understanding home. Now the supervision is, uh, the social worker selects the home and tries to fit the needs of the caretaker, because our caretakers are very human people. They have their lives and dislikes. They know the kinds of patients they want, the kinds with which they can work most successfully. And we try to fit, uh, the needs of the patient, what needs he has, to the needs of the caretaker, and try to help each one, uh, uh, appreciate the interest and help that the other one can give. I think one of the main assets of placing a patient in a family care home instead of returning into his own home, and incidentally, most of these patients cannot return to their own home for the simple reason they don't have one, or the home has rejected them, or else the home puts entirely too much pressure on them. They cannot accept them at the level at which they can function. It's just totally impossible for you to accept your mother at, uh, a rather, in a rather confused stage, forget to asking you some question every two minutes, the same question every two minutes, because she's not the great person that she once was. But a stranger probably would find your mother a very charming old lady still, and she wouldn't be bothered at all by those questions. And she wouldn't put too much pressure on her while you were always asking me the same thing. She would never say that. It's easier for a stranger to accept them on that level. I think that's one of the reasons for the success of family care. The greatest reason, I think, for the success is the excellent supervision that we try to give our patients in foster homes by well-trained psychiatric social workers who go in and work with the caretaker and with the patient. Another thing is, and I think this is important for anyone who is assigned foster home with the aged, regardless of whether it's the senile and psychotic aged, or I mean the psychotic and arteriosclerotic aged, or whether it's the aged that presumably have made a pretty good adjustment as they go along. And that is, a family caretaker or a foster home feels a great deal of security when it has an institution back of it. One speaker here spoke of the security of the individual if he knew he could return to the institution when he felt the need of it. Your caretaker also feels a great security. She knows if that patient is upset mentally or if he's upset physically, and she is unable to take care of him, that she will immediately get the help that she needs in the care of that patient, whether it means return to the hospital, the services of a local physician, or whatever it may be needed. My personal feeling is that we here in New York have just begun to explore the possibilities of this method of treatment for the aged. I have seen the satisfaction that many of the aged have found in these foster homes. I've seen it in Yale in Belgium where it's gone on since about 600 A.D. I've seen 200 patients in Berlin before the war who were enjoying the privileges of foster home care. I think we in the United States have been a little slow in this, and I think perhaps as our staffs increase in the hospital, and we can fill the existing vacant positions we have and gain more, that we will have found a suitable exit for many, many more patients than are now living in family care. Although I am proud to say that the State of New York is the first both in numbers and in the whole program of family care. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Crutcher. Let me say again that any communications sent in writing for our committee addressed to me at either Newburgh or Albany will be very gratefully received and most carefully considered. Our committee will stay in session in case anyone wants to speak from the floor. If not, I'm meaning to stand adjourned, but we thank you all very much for coming. Thank you. Hi. Hi. Have a great week at the National Council. Bye. I won't say a lot. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.