Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen assembled here in historic City Hall in New York, and ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, the Metropolitan Chapters of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States welcome all of you here today at this National Defense Week ceremony. Set apart from all others, it is most appropriate that the period between the birthday anniversaries of our two greatest presidents, George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, has been selected for this observance. National Defense Week is intended to serve as a sharp reminder to our citizens of the ever-present and constantly increasing need for a well-trained, able military force, both regular and reserved. The United States, as the foremost power in the world, has accepted the responsibility of leading the world to international peace. In assuming this responsibility, and for the security of its people, the United States is committed to maintaining a stronger-than-ever peacetime military strength until world peace is assured. This can best be done, and with the most economical use of the military tax dollar, by maintaining a sizable, well-trained reserve force. It has been the traditional American policy to depend for peacetime national defense upon a small force of highly efficient, regular career men, backed up by a large force of minute men, who in time of peace are citizens first, and soldiers, sailors, marines, airmen, and coast guardsmen second. In event of a full-scale war, this trained reserve force must be immediately available to take its place beside the regular forces. In the Korean incident, the value of the training which reservists had received in peacetime has paid off, not only in aiding them in preserving their own lives, but in increasing their efficiency for combat operations beside their compatriots in the regular forces. General of the Army's Douglas MacArthur recently paid tribute to all reserve officers when he said, No segment of American citizenry has contributed more to the preservation of our country in the past than the reserve officer, and none is more necessary to its future security. The United States, a colonel in the Army Reserve, has issued a statement in connection with this National Defense Week observance. The President's statement will be read by Lieutenant Colonel Abraham Kaufman, President of the Manhattan Chapter of the Reserve Officers Association. Colonel Kaufman. It is my desire to express appreciation to the Reserve Officers Association of the United States for again bringing to the attention of our citizens the need for proper national security by the observance of National Defense Week. Your traditional period, February 12th through 22nd, seems particularly appropriate to me as the two limiting dates are the birthdays of two great Americans, Lincoln and Washington, both of whom believed sincerely in adequate defenses for our nation. Many thousands of reservists have once again been called to active duty in an emergency. Once again they have proven how vital our reserve system has become in supplying trained manpower, in assuring our national defense, and our freedoms. The citizens of this country owe our reservists, soldiers, sailors, and airmen a deep debt of gratitude. I am sure that patriotic citizens will give widespread support to your efforts to inform our people of the important role that the reservist holds in the security of the nation. All branches of the Armed Services have united with the Reserve Officers Association in presenting throughout the nation programs similar to this. We have present with us today distinguished officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast Guard, and Marines, and we are grateful to all of them for being here. And now representing the Mayor of the City of New York, Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari, we are proud to present to our audience, both here in City Hall and to those listening in, the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, Honorable Charles Horowitz. Mr. Horowitz. Captain Burke, distinguished members of the Armed Forces and distinguished members of the Reserve Corps or Reserve Men's Association, I want you to know at the outset that I, too, at one time, was a corporal in the U.S. Army. I didn't wear my uniform today because I have become more corporeal than corporal. It is my privilege and honor to appear before you today and to welcome you as the official representative of Mayor Impelitari to this historic City Hall for the second annual ceremony that you are holding in commemoration of Defense Week or Preparedness Week. We, in the City of New York, are very proud of our Armed Forces, and we are particularly proud of the Reserve Officers Association and its membership because we have a full appreciation of the sacrifices that are made by you men from all walks of life who devote a considerable portion of your time and your talents and your energy to uphold and protect for us the real foundation of our government in that you are the defenders of our defense line. A people or a land is only as great as its people. We've been rich in the City of New York in that we have fine people in our city. They're all proud of our city. They're all mindful of their obligations as citizens of the city and as American citizens, and I know that they will accord to you in this undertaking full cooperation and that you will find them responsive to the high purposes and aims and ideals which your association stands for. In commemoration of this event and your appearance here today, it is my privilege in behalf of the Mayor who is now occupied upstairs in the Board of Estimate Chamber presiding over a Board of Estimate meeting. I want to express his regret and his inability to come down here and tear himself away from his official duties, but I want to bring to you in his behalf not only his greetings and his welcome to you, but a proclamation which he has issued commemorating this occasion. And I want to present this proclamation to Captain Burke representing the Reserve Officers Association of the United States. Whereas the Reserve Officers Association of the United States through its metropolitan area chapters seeks to call the attention of our citizens to the state of our nation's defenses, and whereas it is the duty of every citizen to consider intelligently the strength of our military establishments, both regular and reserve, without which our country would be defenseless, and whereas it is particularly important because of present international tensions that our citizenry be kept informed of this safeguard to national security, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim the period of February 12th through February 22, 1952, as National Defense Week in New York City, and to urge that the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings and that business and industry, civic, patriotic, and social organizations join in observing National Defense Week. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 11th day of February 19th, 152, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor. I present this to you, Captain Burke, with the congratulations and felicitations of the Mayor and the people of the City of New York for the splendid contribution and record of achievement of the Reserve Officers Association of the United States and our gratitude to them for it. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Certainly appreciate this. How am. I should like to express, Mr. Horowitz, to you our deep appreciation for your participation in this program. And I would ask that you also convey to His Honor, Mayor Impelletary, our appreciation of his interest in the Reserve Officers Association in its effort to project to the citizens of our city and of our nation the need for a greater national defense. The proclamation which he has so graciously announced and has given to us today shall be placed in the archives of the Association where it shall remain, we hope, for time immemorial. Now, in bringing this program to a conclusion, I should like, in the name of the various chapters of the Reserve Officers Association of the Metropolitan Area who have united in presenting this ceremony, to extend thanks to the distinguished guests who are present here today, representing, as they do, all of the various branches of the Armed Forces, to the speakers for their remarks, to Commander Seymour N. Siegel, United States Naval Reserve, the director of New York City Station WNYC, and to his staff for making the broadcast of these proceedings possible, to the staff of the Mayor's Office for its fine cooperation, and lastly, to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have been so gracious as to participate with us on this occasion. It is our hope that the messages which you have heard here today will bring to each one of you a greater realization of the need for an adequate, strong national defense, and that you constantly bear in mind that the defenses of this nation are only so strong as its military establishment is strong. Remember well that eternal vigilance is the price of liberty and peace. Commander Thomas H. Riley, chaplain, United States Navy, will now deliver the benediction. Commander Riley. Almighty and eternal God, we adore thee as Master and Lord of all creation. We thank thee for all thy generous gifts and favors. We humbly ask thy blessing upon our nation and all our fellow countrymen engaged in a crusade against oppression and greed. We beg thy mercy for those who have laid down their lives. we beg thy protection for those engaged in battle on land, on sea, and in the air. Strengthen and encourage them. Comfort the prisoners. Relieve the suffering of the wounded and show thy mercy to the dying. Instill in the hearts and minds of all men a love and a desire for peace and make us faithful and courageous in the accomplishment of this holy purpose through Christ our Lord. Amen. Amen.