Ladies and gentlemen, it is pleasant to welcome you tonight to the concluding lecture in the Edward L. Bernays Anniversary Lecture Series on the overall topic of the social responsibility of management. We've already been favored with three significant presentations, that of Mr. Stuart Chase from the point of view of the social engineer, that of Mr. Stanley Rutenberg from the point of view of organized labor, and that of Dr. Edwin G. Norris from the point of view of the economist. Tonight we are to deal with our overall topic, squarely from the point of view of top management. Your speaker this evening is a native of the Keystone State. He received his secondary school education at the Hill School in Pottstown, Pennsylvania, and then moved on to New England for collegiate training at Massachusetts Tech, and at the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale. In 1911, he joined the American Brake Shoe Company, there to proceed rapidly through a succession of executive posts, until in 1929, he assumed the executive direction of the company as its president, which post he continues to occupy with notable distinction. Widely known as an innovator and as a pioneer of interesting managerial ideas, he regards his company's total effort as one of complete cooperation, up and down the several managerial and supervisory levels. And as a sincere, sympathetic workbench confidant and father confessor, he quite successfully steers his company's operations in the direction of human relationships, human relationships that make for cooperation instead of conflict. I'm somehow reminded here of a Midwestern farmer friend in my early days, who always appeared to have trouble in correctly pronouncing the word cooperation. What he said always sounded like cooperation. I was sure he knew better, so I asked him about it. His answer was very blunt and very direct. He said to me, well, I pronounce it cooperative because I want to call attention to the word and make people ask me about it. And he said, you know, you know, the two blame many people in this world, who when asked to cooperate, think that they're being asked to coo while the other fellow operates. In your speaker's own organization, the ideal and the achievement is correct. It is coo-operation. The author of this widely known book entitled Bottoms Up Management, which has been highly complimented and which has been a stimulant, certainly to my own personal thinking. Mr. Given was selected, as most of you know, by our School of Commerce to be one of the anniversary doctors of commercial science, whom we were delighted to honor recently on the occasion of our golden anniversary celebration. It is very fitting indeed then that he should participate in these special anniversary lectures. And so it is great pleasure and a privilege for me to present to you now Dr. William B. Given Jr., President of the American Brake Shoe Company and one of our most recent graduates whose progress upwards we shall all watch and applaud as the years erupt. Thank you, Mr. Given. Thank you. If each and every one of you left now, which would be very embarrassing to me, I'm sure you'd leave with a better impression than if you stay through my six-hour talk. I would like to say in connection with this generous degree that somehow I got, that the other one I got was awful hard to get. This one coming out of the blue sky instead of out of examinations, when I somehow wasn't sure, has meant much more to me. As you of course know, my talk is the fourth and last of the series on the social responsibility of management. My assignment on this subject is to speak from the standpoint of management. To me, management's responsibility from every standpoint is the same as the individual's social responsibility. As president of the Brakeshue Company and as Bill Given, I look through the same eyes and see the same objectives. The word management is a collective term for a group of individuals in positions with varying ranges of authority who work together. It's important to keep in mind that today, management people generally own only a small interest in their companies. In other words, no matter what our titles, we are still all only employees. So to me, the first question is, what are the social responsibilities of individuals? You and me and other people. Our first responsibility is of course to our families. After that, to our neighbors, to our community, and just as definitely to all others who can be affected by our decisions and our actions. Each of us has the inherent obligation to put forth his or her best, best effort in trying to make life better for other people. Our individual social obligations are very great. The first job of management is to operate a business successfully. This is essential if it is to have an opportunity to contribute to society. Management's greatest responsibility is to company people. A successful company is one which gives its people, those who work in it and its stockholders, more of the things they want in life, more security. I wish particularly to talk tonight about these responsibilities to company people and how we should try to fulfill them. Many people still think of a business enterprise in terms of buildings, equipment, bank balances, stocks and bonds. These tangibles are merely management's tools, which it uses in its trade. These are the most important things that we should be able to do. Actually, a company is a group of people working together. As a group, to be effective, they need a statement of objectives, which clearly sets forth the end purpose, the long-range objectives of the company. It helps very much, such a statement, to keep people on the track. Obviously, if these objectives are sound, progress in them will benefit all company people. And this benefit will spread to company families, communities and the whole country. Realizing this is an essential need, a dozen or more years ago, we set out to crystallize the objectives for which our company was striving, and for which, in my opinion, industry generally is striving. We finally reduced them to five simple statements. To make our company a better place to work, a better neighbor in our communities, a better company to invest in, a better company to sell to, a better company to buy from. These statements of our objectives, our aim, hang on the walls of our plants and offices as a constant reminder to all of us. We try to live up to them. We are making progress. We are making progress. There are many aspects to consider, to be considered in making a company a better place to work. We in industry are deeply impressed with the importance of people. We realize that in developing a successful company, people play a more important part than plants, engineering, research, or any material thing. We are even more important than sufficient money. With right people, the rest will come. Without them, the tangibles will have little value. Right people understand teamwork and the importance of all-out effort and enthusiasm in building a sound business. To accumulate right people in the ranks of any organization is impossible unless those in supervision are fine human beings. That sounds hard to accomplish. It is. And it does take time. Any company which tries to have only such men in supervision takes the first step by eliminating those who do not qualify and filling the vacancies with others who do. Such eliminations are a must if this end purpose is real. The characteristics which make good bosses are the same characteristics which make good husbands, good fathers, good friends. These are the simple virtues. Honesty, loyalty, moral courage, kindness, generosity. Men with these qualities are cause-minded. They know their contribution toward better products, toward lower costs and prices, toward improvement in working conditions, and all the other possibles to greater success can and will build a better future for all concerned. Old school business managers felt that everyone who worked for them was in their debt. Some even felt that the paycheck was at least in part a charity. We are older experienced this. Now we know the opposite is true. That every company has a long-term debt to those who contribute to its success. The managers who are not realistic about this do not belong in today's management. This is putting the emphasis where it belongs, on human relations, on the basis of the debt a company owes to the men and women who are endeavoring to make it successful. Just what is this obligation? If we analyze it, it is simple. It is just the same as the responsibility which flows from friendship. In the time of trouble, we turn to a friend. And if we have been right about his friendship, we are never disappointed. As a friend of company people and their families, we in business are trying to build so that they will turn to us in supervision whenever they are in trouble. We expect supervisors in every department to carry on so that their people will feel toward them as they feel toward their close friends. We expect that they are in the same position. None qualify, in my opinion, for supervisory positions whose day-to-day carry-on does not earn the confidence of their people. This is not just sentiment. It is sound business for a company. It builds a proper basis of relationship between the company and its people. It is a great thing. Friendship is the beginning of our social responsibility. At all times, we must keep before us the fundamental fact that the right kind of people will not be attracted to or remain in our ranks unless we rate them. In order to rate them, we must give them a chance to progress, a feeling of self-respect and a sense of security. Every man's work attitude and effectiveness is related to his home and family, his environment, his personal philosophy, his economic situation and his happiness. Realizing this, management generally has come to think of his people not in terms of the working day only, but in terms of their whole lives. Largely, the turnover in industry today is not due to persons seeking higher wages, but to their seeking satisfaction of their basic human needs and desires. It is management's responsibility to help fulfill these deeper needs and desires to the best of its ability. Obviously, the thing they want and need most, these things form the basis of a company's opportunity to contribute a maximum to the community life as well as to the family life of its people. Let me give you some of the things which management believe they must provide if they are to contribute toward improvement of the standard of life in our country. These are things all of us search for in our own lives. Security of employment, retirement security, security against misfortune, healthy working conditions, opportunity for advancement, recognition and self-respect. In spite of endless orations and many millions of printed words to the contrary, these are today the objectives of American management. There has never been a period in our country's history when the intentions of management were finer than they are today. Unprejudiced people know this to be true. The slanderers can be divided into two groups, those who do not know the facts and those who prefer batting to building. These generally are people who seek the limelight, people who have no interest in how many are damaged in their attempt to make themselves conspicuous. The company, along with a number of others, has been trying for years to better fulfill these human needs. And let me add that even if management were composed only of money grubbers, as many seem to assume, it would follow these same policies because they pay dividends. Dividends both tangible and intangible. To explain these points, I want to mention some of the specific things we are doing in our company. The original Brakeshoot Company came into being in 1902 by the consolidation of five small family-owned iron foundry companies. Their total value was a million dollars. 85% of the products were sold to the railroads. The company's largest company-owned iron found in the company's market. Gradually, our management realized that if the objective was the security of company people, the future should not be tied to the prosperity or depression of a single industry. Some progress was made in the early years. In the late 20s, we started, and since then have continued, an intensive program of diversification of products in order to broaden our markets. Our investment in research and engineering over the years since then has been large. I'm amazed how much we spend, having started when we spent nothing. Today, about half our sales dollars come from general industry and all other fields. This provides not only increased production, but increased stability. We will continue trying to build greater employment security. That is both our social responsibility and our greatest social opportunity. And progress will contribute to earnings. Retirement security. Retirement security. In 1940, we adopted a contributory retirement plan for all employees. In addition to the costs of establishing the plan, the company assumed the large cost of funding past service of employees. The plan is based on all of us participating on the same basis, the basis of length of service and rate of pay. It's interesting to note that throughout the 11-year period, more than 85% of our people have been members of this voluntary contributory plan. As far as practical pension checks are sent to the plans for delivery in person by the plant superintendent or nurse. The pensioners know we are available in case of their illness or any other troubles. Mostly we get called in on false teeth, I might mention. There is proof of our interest in their welfare that we still think of the pensioner as a member of our family. Every year, each pensioner receives a Christmas present from his former plant or office. That doesn't seem important, but it is a detail of human relations that seems to make a tremendous difference if it's carefully done. Security against misfortune. Security against misfortune. Not only death, but family illnesses. Accidents and other serious troubles come to most of us at some time in our lives. In Breakthrough, we help our people meet these emergencies through group life insurance established in 1932, the only really bad year we ever had, and accident health insurance for them and their dependents. Furthermore, our plant superintendents have for use, at their sole discretion, a plant welfare fund in ready cash, as well as a company lawyer, a doctor, and a nurse. Social responsibility is not met by good intentions alone. Social Environmentnaping and an office窓at were made by Avenger resources at theánticoke about 5. executive union calmly, after his work done for non-commodation laten 치athran medial scones, about 5. A very natural they need to Underground expose, and its leaving these disabilities. Also, a family emergency is not met or helped because there's the law or regulation which provides a method of handling it. The doctor, the nurse, the lawyer must arrive on time. A family emergency? Got mixed. Our plants and our offices are scattered all over this country. When there's trouble in a company family, the local boss does not fill out some form and mail it to the county seat or the state capitol, to Washington, or even to the New York office. He has full authority. The supervisor picks up the telephone, gives the number of the doctor, nurse, or lawyer, and starts the rescue. He understands his responsibility, has the authority to act, and gets a great kick out of his power to be useful. Healthy working conditions. For many years we've realized that any amount of expense which makes a plant healthier and safer is a sound investment. We need not only better working conditions, but the best possible working conditions. There must be a maximum freedom from accident hazards, a minimum of lifting and caring, cleanliness, good light and air, proper temperatures, a clean and pleasant place to eat, good shower and locker rooms. These are the conditions that you and I would want were we working in a plant. Industry has been spending millions of dollars, in fact billions of dollars, on better working conditions in the last period of years. It will help the understanding of business if more people realize that fact. In the last 20 years our company has scrapped 22 old plants and replaced them with modern buildings. We have been moving from big cities to smaller communities. Our people benefit. They can have healthier, happier lives. Their pay dollar buys more. The family is on a sounder footing. Such advantages increase the degree of company success in getting better people. Also very important in making life a better place for people is an effective medical and industrial hygiene department. In our company each new employee receives a pre-placement physical examination. It's a fundamental responsibility to see that he is assigned to work, assigned to work for which he is physically fit. Each employee receives a physical examination every two years and a chest x-ray every year. This work is essential to the elimination of occupational disease and often also detects many unhealthy conditions in their early stages. For instance, our chest x-ray program in two years uncovered 90 cases of tuberculosis, which otherwise would probably have gone undetected until they reached the advanced stage. The incidence of lead poisoning and silicosis have been materially reduced, in some plants entirely eliminated. Our industrial hygiene and safety people are constantly checking the plants for hazardous or unsafe conditions caused by dust, fumes, chemicals or other dangers. They also cooperate with local and state health departments in an effort to reduce air pollution in our communities. Today, we have more people in our medical and hygiene department than we had in engineering twenty years ago. Actually, we have twice as many. Healthy working conditions are not only a responsibility of companies to their people, but a responsibility to society. Opportunity for advancement. For most people, this is high on their list of desires. Part of management's job is to help men who show initiative and zeal to qualify for advancement. There is daily proof that with few exceptions, men are willing and anxious to deliver a full day's production. That competent people generally prefer an incentive basis of pay. That's denied by many, but still happens to be factual. They want their pay envelope to reflect their skill and their accomplishments. They want to see ahead a chance for promotion, a chance to have more of the things they want for their families. Like,watering standards, these concepts, could happen. Better prosperity and character-mongerajaomez, is not alleen'RE değild dolls are in $5 x on vincent ENT. This is going to be a great advantage of the curriculum credit. Of course, ISIS. There is still high pride in accomplishment. This is an historic American characteristic. One that has made possible our development. Doles which guarantees can undermine such traits of character. high pride and accomplishment. Management must find additional ways to encourage individual ambition and initiative. Building the individual is both an obligation and one of life's greatest opportunities. Recognition and self-respect. Every one of us knows our personal need for self-respect and recognition. When plants were smaller, the bosses knew each man by name, knew his family, often chatted with him about his work, the new orders, or talked generally about the company and his prospects. This gave the man a feeling of personal importance. Today's management is striving to return to this relationship of years ago in spite of the new difficulties. They are obvious and great. In large plants, they're a terrible problem. We ask and expect foremen, all supervisors, to make an all-out effort to know their people on a personal basis. Company magazines, reports, and management letters are being used more and more to assist in keeping employees informed about their company. Generally, these are mailed to their homes. Certainly, the worker is entitled to know the facts about the business, what the prospects are for the future, where the machine or product he is working on fits into the company's operation or is used in industry. Yes, and in most homes, other members of the family are interested. Children exposed to such information approach their work life with better understanding of what it's all about. It's human nature for a man to be rusty when he's in the dark. For years, I've preached that we must think and act in terms of individuals, not groups. That we're trying to build a human business on the basis of friendship and mutual confidence. Frank disclosure of all the facts of interest is essential if this is our objective. Referring back to our company aims, the second objective was a better member of the community. This is vitally important. Just as an individual cannot long hide his weaknesses from his neighbors, neither can a poor industrial citizen cover up his shortcomings. An accurate measure of a company's progress in meeting its social responsibility is the opinion of the community. In small towns, the preacher, the grocer, the taxi driver can help us estimate how the company's management meets these responsibilities. They know how workers feel about their company. Normally, you find that if the family is proud of a man's job and the company he works for, the community also is proud of that company. As a member of a community, a businessman must be public-spirited, lend a shoulder to worthwhile community activities, help local institutions and causes. Company people should be encouraged and expected to contribute of their time and energy for local causes. Many men who carry their share of community responsibility grow through these experiences into better, stronger, more understanding members of their management. They become capable of accomplishing more and increasing company strength and enhancing the chances of their own advancement. We should keep in mind that the management of companies, which are owned by large numbers of stockholders, have no right to give money to community causes unless there is a direct benefit to company people. We are employed to manage a business, not to make stockholders charity contributions for them. Giving to Red Cross during the war was a debt we owed to company people at home and in the services. Helping a local hospital is important to company people. Medical research into an occupational disease can have direct benefit. There are many places where companies can give in the interests of their people and also contribute to the welfare of the community. The third company aim, which is as important as any and often forgotten, is to be a better company to invest in. The stocks of endless companies are widely held in small lots by people in all walks of life and of all income levels. In our company, no one individual or family has an important percentage of ownership. Neither do any of us in management have a large number of shares. 55% of the stock is held by 8,819 individuals with an average of 75 shares. Our dividend rate is important to thousands of families. Last year, they received an average of $165 in dividends. The balance of the stock, 45%, is held by insurance companies, banks, trusts, and other institutions. And so on, they're involved in the interest of the money, and the interest of the money that is held by, the interest of several million people are involved in that 55%, 45%. This is usually referred to as private ownership. To me, it's public ownership. People must realize that managers in jobs like mine do not work for banking interests, interests, for a majority or for a minority group, for rich people or for ourselves and our families. We are in our positions by delegated public authority expressed through proxies. It is a segment of the public which, through ownership of company stock, votes and chooses its directors. If the directors as such are not an asset to society, it's the public's job to put others in their place, just as it is the public's job to replace a senator who does not back the legislation which contributes to society. The director's job, number one, as I see it, as a representative of the public of stock owners is to see that the head man is qualified for his responsibilities. If he is not and the directors do not remove him, they certainly should be replaced. Management is charged with the responsibility of providing a fair return on the money invested by the public. Also, and this is of vital importance, public confidence in the company is necessary if it is to be successful in raising additional funds when the company needs them. If such funds are not available, management is unable to meet its obligation to company people and also to society. In the extreme, may not even be able to carry on the business. It is now widely recognized that too few people really understand how business functions in this country. Industry has done a lousy public relations job. A better informed public will defeat any attempt to socialize industry. Management has concentrated on the objectives I have cited and endless others which contribute to social betterment. Today we need a wider knowledge and appreciation among all people of industry's acceptance of its social obligations. The fundamental justification for the existence and future continuance of a business must be based on its ability to contribute to the welfare and betterment of our country and the world, not only today but in the years to come. Management accepts this as a criterion of its success. We will lose the high value to society of management's acceptance of its responsibilities and its opportunities if we let this country of ours, as a result of ignorance and misleading propaganda, legislators out of the tools and the right to act. Do not forget for one moment that with government regulation of industry, people in management will not have authority to do the things for society I have tried to cover in this talk. With government operation, those would be impossible. Acceptance of a position in management entails, and I wish everybody realized it, acceptance of great social responsibilities. They go with it. In the long run, the future of any business and of all business will depend upon the kind of people in management more than they will depend on any other one element. If we are to have the industrial relations we are trying to achieve in our country, each and every man in management must be a decent, straightforward individual. His high pride must be in the contribution he makes to the lives of the people under him. He must know that it is always possible to increase the satisfaction people get out of their work. Such men willingly assume their own social responsibilities. In terms of generations, we are not in our job of influence very long. We must accept that as managers we are only links between the past and the future. But the fact that each of us is a link makes it important that we keep the long-range opportunities in mind when we reach our desk each morning. That we weigh the problems we face in terms of the future rather than merely trying to find immediate solutions. That we go all out to make our link in the chain as strong as possible. Our success will be a matter of courage and sustained effort of letting ourselves be more human than businessmen are supposed to be. Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Given has very graciously consented to deal with a few questions if the audience is so disposed. He's just indicated to me that he doesn't mind being called a liar if anybody wishes to be that presumptuous. I suggest that in the interest of expediency, you address the chair for recognition. And then you're free to address a question to Mr. Given. The gentleman here, will you stand please? I'd like to ask the speaker to follow. Assuming that we have now 17 million organized workers who can improve their condition every year by 10-15% of the cost of wages. Assuming further that our farmers have a great protective arm in Washington, tune of $6 billion in the CCC to boost the cost of living. But what about the remaining 42 million people who are not farmers and who are not in strong unions? What can the management do for them so they cannot be ground down by this perpetually increasing cost of living? I'm a little handicapped on big questions because I just worked in Brakeshue 39 years. Right there, you see. We try to carry on so that people in our company, organized or not, get the same treatment. We also try, and maybe this shouldn't be broadcast, when there's a union negotiation, to offer them what we think are the whole works before they vote. Which is somewhat fundamentally the same thing, you see. Before the war, we had 55 plants now, we had 62. And very few of our plants were organized. Our policy, and we lived up to it generally, we slipped once in a while, was where an organized plant got an increase in wages, the unorganized plant got an increase. Which is, to me, the same idea. It's a very serious problem, but we want our people to have confidence in us. We think that that's the sound way to try to build. And these things, to me, if you don't do them, you don't have any chance of even rating confidence. I don't know why that answers you very well, but... Another question, the gentleman on the aisle, please. It seems to me that a very good case was presented for the Brakeshue Company, but I can't feel that what they have been trying to accomplish and have accomplished is indicative of a general trend in the management today. And I have had ten years of varied experiences in executive positions in companies of moderate size, I would say. And it would seem to me that the management in moderate size companies are devoid of any training in the psychology of dealing with their intermediate supervision. Now, would the speaker seem to feel that there is any trend in business of moderate size, which I think makes up the greater part of American industry, even though we have our larger corporations that are perhaps better known. Is there any trend towards a more definite selection of supervisors through whom I think management can achieve the goals that they've set out to attain? Are they being more carefully selected? Are they being more carefully selected? Are they being more carefully selected? Is there any trend towards really seeing to it that people with the capabilities that he has expressed should be in a position of supervision? Are they being more likely to be in a position of supervision? Are they being more likely to be in a position of supervision? So that management can properly communicate to the supervisor the goals, the objectives of management, and then have those properly passed along to the people, the actual workers, and the people in lower supervision? It seems to me in the past ten years I've been associated with several companies that, I hope not because of my effort or lack of it, are not in a very good position today. They go on from year to year and it's very clear that they do not have the ability among their top supervision to pass along these good intentions and good motives of management. Now I would feel very much imperative if there is any trend towards a more careful selection of supervision, perhaps through aptitude testing or character analysis or some of the more scientific means of determining the man's ability rather than what some employment agency advises the management that this is able to do. If you want to come, no. I hope all of you can stay several hours because that's a long question to even try to answer. I'd like to start out by saying that in my opinion, people who do own stocks in companies can't afford to keep them unless management in the company is minded the way I have said, it seems to me, a great many managements are minded. Just on the cold blooded side, I don't think you can afford to take an employment agency's advice on who is a good man to work under. One detail in our company, and I think, I kind of think we're not too bad, but I think we're not ahead of companies generally. My wife and I, in one year for instance, had plenty dinners with superintendent, foreman, chief clerk, and wives in the different cities in which we have plants. I didn't cover them all. I've done two in the last three weeks, one in Minneapolis and one in Chicago. We're awfully anxious to weed out the guys that I wouldn't like to work for. We think that if a right kind of a human being, if he doesn't have enough know-how, he has to have some, and we can be given an assistant who is an expert. That the human element comes first. I don't believe that over the long range of years, unless the fellow has a Gillette safety razor patent, which maybe there aren't any more like, business can succeed without proper conception of what the fellow, whatever his job is, who pulls his door, contributes. I think the human end of it, and it wasn't true. I've been in the company I'm in nearly 40 years. We didn't talk this way when I went there. But I think generally, what I've said is the way business management thinks today. I think a lot of opinion of business management comes out of 25, 30, 35 years ago on the idea that labor is a commodity, which was what people said then. I think there's been more of a transition. It's far from perfect than people who don't work in a company, and this man did, so he knows directly, generally realized. Also, I believe, as men in management get older and look forward to looking back on their work life, the human element gets more and more important all the time. You just hope to God when you get near retirement that once every seven years somebody will say, well, he was a pretty decent guy. Maybe they won't. Gentleman here, please. Gentleman here, please. Mr. Gibbons has described some of the specific policies of his company to make that company a better place in which he worked. Now, I would like to ask if he has ever experienced any considerable degree of resentment on the part of his employees against any of these measures as internalism. Once in a while, I get a letter from an employee or his wife saying how different we are than given preachers. I don't think that's resentment. Contributory pension and contributory group insurance and contributory hospitalization plan were thought of as paternalism, I think, a good many years ago. I don't think people think that anymore. I don't know. I can't say yes or no to your—if you're in a company, they're always going to be a good thing. In a company, there are all kind of people and some damn you and maybe somebody praises you. You're not have to hear from him. But I don't think that people in companies feel that we're trying to run their life. I think a lot of them feel we're trying to help them understand methods and ways which might give them a better chance to move up. The only time I've heard of paternalism lately was several years ago from a vice president. And he said, do you realize how much you expect of everybody after 5 o'clock? But I said, no, that isn't trying to regulate a fellow's life. From my standpoint, that's trying to help him understand how he might get $6 more a month or a year if he did something a little differently. That's a bum answer to your question. I don't think there isn't much feeling of that, but I don't know. Gentleman down here, please. Mr. Gibbons, do you make executive promotions from the ranks or do you sometimes go to the outside to get executives? Oh, I hope somebody would ask that. This is my greatest boast about the Brakeshoot Company. I've made a speech at Harvard Business Graduate School on this subject. I feel very strongly that the company which has to go outside frequently to get a man for a high place, the board ought to take a new look at the head guy. I've said this at Harvard Graduate School, you see, in development of management people. I think it's understandable for a company to go out once in a while. It happens in our company. I'm glad you asked this. I've been there 39 years and the president nearly 21. The next fellow has been there, I think, 35 years. And there's six of us who were the older group, and we came to the company at an average age, six vice presidents and presidents. Of 24, as I recollect. And our younger group came at an average age of vice presidents, or five of them, at 21. So we not only think you get a great thrill out of seeing your own people come up, but we think that in your company you get a better quality of young fellows if they find out that the head jobs are normally filled. From the ranks. This is my favorite boast. It may not work from here on, but that does answer your point, doesn't it? But once in a while, I mean, you have to have an awful lot of luck. It happens that the president and vice presidents of our company have all come the whole way in our company. But if it had been, if there had been two outsiders that had been there a year or something before we became vice presidents, I could understand that too. You can have a lot of casualties, and you can't have the other company who pays more. But nobody's offered ours any higher paid jobs, evidently. Gentleman on the aisle. Mr. Giddon, would you care to comment on the social responsibility of management in its relations with the employees and their unions around the collective part of the table? Mr. Giddon. Mr. Giddon. Mr. Giddon. I'm glad I knew in advance what these questions were going to be. That's a question. I think that my approach, and I don't know how to answer your question, is that I hope we in Breakshoe are more interested in our people than anybody else. else and I would hope that it doesn't work out that when we said to one of our bargaining groups that this is all that it'll carry in the envelope for instance that they would believe that we mean it literally they might still vote to strike I think at the bargaining table our responsibility is to be completely truthful now it's awful hard to be completely truthful when you're bargaining but on the other side of it people stay in our company our employees mostly have stayed on but if you can write their belief that when you sit at the table and say we can't take a increase or we can take an increase of accents that you mean it and the workout will prove it and if you do it from the standpoint of security of how many people and that's stockholders too and these aren't rich stockholders we know rich people seem to buy our stock I think that's your social responsibility at the bargaining table in our company we had a pension plan long before the excitement about pension we'd group insurance as I said in my talk with hospitalization none of those things came out of bargaining they came because we thought we could build a stronger company by making our our people and our people I mean people who stay and who work I don't mean shirkers that if we could build more security for them it would build more security all around and I'm very proud of the fact that the things that have been the battlefront lately were done where I work before those subjects got to the battlefront that's probably a rotten answer but that's a hard question we have time for one or two more gentlemen off to the right there my right just together I'm actually directed to say that you believe management should weed out supervisors or many members of management who are not managing on a friendship basis to use your work term broadly does management also accept the responsibility for those people who have to be weeded out if they weren't trained in the junior years I think maybe I didn't make it clear I was talking about the kind of human being not about his know-how I don't think management has any right to keep or can afford to keep as a boss a fellow who isn't a decent guy I don't know whether that's to the point you make or not when we shove him aside if he's been there quite a long time if he hasn't been there long we replace him if he's been there a long time we find a place and usually those fellas have talents they just aren't writing the human side and we can put him into an engineering draft room on construction maintenance or some other type of job we try to keep our fellows who have been with us a long time and if they don't qualify we'll say after they've been promoted we really do a pretty good job recognizing their years of service and their effort which happens at the point to be unsuccessful to contribute toward the company Mr. Dickens has said that this company feels a personal responsibility to the employee I'd like to take a point of view of the typical employee my early life has been spent in factories of all sorts some of them are very big ones who have applied to the beginning of the techniques your company has applied in making the life of the employee wholesome, useful and happy and I was exposed to the various devices of the company that you mentioned the company's use in order to foster their personal relationship and understanding and loyalty between the employee and the company however my recollection is that at that time all of those efforts as I will look back upon those upon that experience have not been very effective upon me as an employee my present understanding of your aims and sympathy with them and so on comes to the courtesy of NYU now I should like to ask you this question in the light of what I have said and in the light of what you have said have you tested the efficacy of your efforts in promoting better understanding between the company and the employee and again their sympathy and understanding as well as loyalty to the company and how effective are those methods? I'd like to make one generalizing remark you get all pepped up and you think you're making a hell of a lot of progress and then things break loose we in our company had very few organized plans pre-war now that doesn't prove anything but it's a slight indication it doesn't prove anything that people thought we were people the workmen thought we were people that were interested in them don't you think that's true? and then the war came on and in a war period I think we had 62 plants remember they're all small averaged 100 in that period 55 people or such and once in a while a new one was organized once in a while we had a strike then they didn't total much we had five and four years in one period pre-war which went into the war and then 16 plants dropped due to pickets from other plants there was a period you very old people will remember when there was a lot of general picketing people picketing out of plants I think that we're making progress via trying to rate the confidence of the individual now I have to add who pulls these oars and we're making progress via the war that we owe him a debt and we try to live up to that but you get some very startling things happen but I would think in our company that the average employee has much more feeling that he wants to spend his work life with us than the average employee had 20 years ago and to me that's the great yardstick of how the decent guy feels about the place he works we have a pretty good record our growth has distorted figures terribly I mean we had so many more people than we had pre-war but people have stuck on and uh... some people don't believe it no matter what they see or hear and some people are such optimists they believe anything they see and hear but I believe that long range industrial relations and I'm talking very long range that the employees can be fine from one standpoint finer than they were 35 years ago where the employee didn't get nearly as good a break as he gets now I think that management generally has and it's a I don't read this in the paper but I think management generally has very high ideals as to their objective in improving the lives of people in their country that doesn't answer you at all does it? oh now you're going to ask the question you have you have anticipated the problem that was heading for was to see what you have anticipated as a company and make any effort to test and measure the efficacy of your various aims and uh... and uh... and uh... and uh... and uh... and thereby not only as uh... loyalty to the company but also as sensitivity with the whole organization and the huge management in society as it is as it exists today you mentioned that you wish to uh... create such a uh... such a uh... high level of uh... well-informed intelligence that any kind of uh... foreign business or false disease that would be juried by a person's back would uh... would not be able to pay a group in the no I never said anything like that I never went that far but i think that's the only employee that I have to be told in the so was I you got nothing on me I know well I think this man's questions see I think in terms of individuals and it's true I travel plans to be able to see in terms of individuals and it's true I travel plans to be able to see I think in terms of individuals uh... I know as presidents go a lot of people in our company workmen as well as others I think in terms of individuals I know that in our company we can't do anything with all of them we can't hope that all the people in the Detroit plant will be glad they're in our company but if each year there's a little increase and I mean only a little increase in the number of men who are hoping they're gonna spend their work life with break shoe we're making progress you can't strikes or no gauge of human relations that seems an impossible thing they come out of Billy Sunday you know a lot of people went to the altar and confessed and joined the church till they passed the saloon on the way home now there's a lot of evangelism in groups but in terms of the individual I think that there's more cases of men who regret a strike that exists than there's been in any time during the last 10 years also this physical fear has been a big element I don't think it is as much now afraid to go to work afraid something would happen to the home if they didn't go to work when there was a strike but I've worked a long time and somehow I got to be up a little in the company years ago and I think management is composed of a finer lot of men and composed it in the old days which I used to think were much better of companies that were practically all family owned I know we bought a fair number of family owned companies and they didn't have the security for them the security packages that we put in voluntarily I never know how to answer any questions right until we find some way of measuring the goodwill of a business or the charm of Chopin's music we will not arrive at perfection in the use of small caliper tools for the purpose of measuring a human being or his reaction that is why in some of these matters we must talk in terms of the general we must talk in terms of the relative there is no absolute the business of university faculty the business of university faculty it's point that fact out but more important the business of university faculty is to furnish temptations upward and that's the true goal of formal education whatever may be the area of its effort you've listened tonight to a representative of top management who in his own company has a very distinguished reputation in his desire to furnish temptations upward now as we formally close these anniversary lectureships with special respect for the stimulation they have given to us all and to their significance so I'm sure that when these four talks are ready in printed form and can be studied at leisure we will all realize their special significance as we close this lectureship then I suggest that you all stand and extend to the speaker of the evening a hearty round of applause after which we'll stand adjourned