Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what does Soviet territorial expansion mean? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around Russia's motives in extending her territorial boundaries and what these acquisitions mean to Russia and the rest of the world. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are W. Gordon East, Professor of Geography in the University of London and Visiting Professor at the University of Minnesota. Richard Hartshorn, Professor of Geography at the University of Wisconsin. Chauncey Harris, Professor of Geography at the University of Chicago. And Malcolm Proudfoot, Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. Now, Harris, tell us, what does this Soviet territorial expansion include? Well, the annexed territories total 260,000 square miles, an area about the size of Texas. They have a population of 24 million, about equal to Texas, California, and all the mountain states combined. It would be true to say that the Soviet Union has incorporated into itself territory from every bordering state in Europe, every bordering state in Europe, from Finland, south to Romania. And some in Asia. Well, and not only that, but they have extended their political control over six other states, and parts of two, parts of Germany and Austria. And this is a continuous block of additional territory in Central Europe, of well over 300,000 square miles, and another 90 million people. Well, how has this expansion been accomplished east? Well, in essence, it's the fruits of victory. Some of the territory taken has been acquired by treaty as from Finland, others under agreements with the Western powers at Yalta and Potsdam. But in the main, it is a territory occupied by the Red Army, as it surged forward in the latter days of World War II. And likewise, the areas now under indirect control are brought there largely through the power of the Red Army, I take it? That's right. The Red Army liberated these countries, and this, she's extended her benefits in another way since. Well, what are her motives, Hartshorn? What's, why has Russia made this expansion? Of course, it's very difficult or impossible to tell what are the motives of a country like Russia. Any statements they make are for propaganda purposes, so that one couldn't judge from that. I would attempt to judge simply in terms of what they have done. Actions speak more clearly than words in this case, and we need to analyze what areas they have taken, what, if any, they have not taken, in order to determine what the purpose would be. If I could add to that, and speak only of the territory annexed by the Union, I think one must look at that in relation to history, that the Soviet Union was born at a time of weakness, the end of World War I, and its territory was restricted, locked off, as compared with the old Russian Empire. Here, after World War II, it takes its place with the victors, and, not surprisingly, claims its, its territories that it once had. And, to a great extent, the territories that Russia has taken over are territories that belong to the Tsarist Empire, though in some cases, territories that then were part of Russia, like Finland and the Duchy of Warsaw, are not now within the Soviet Union. Of course, the methods that the Tsarist Russia used in taking those have been frequently denounced by the Soviet, by the Communists, haven't they? Yes. So this is a curious paradox. That is true, but the Communists are opportunist and not very tied to principle. And, of course, some new territories have been seized from Germany, from Czechoslovakia, and from Romania, which were never part of the old Russian Empire. Well, you're talking now about these territories that have been brought under political control. No, actual annexation. This was actual annexation. That's all. East Prussia, the northern part of East Prussia, the Königsberg area. And Ruthenia from Czechoslovakia, which is never part of Russia. Well, East, would you regard this political penetration of territory that has never belonged to Russia with the same kind of equanimity with which you seem to regard the taking on of annexing of territory? No, quite clearly the title to that is strategic or defensive. It is not ethnographic. It isn't the case that Russia could make, could make quite properly, for the recovery of lands from Poland. There she had a good case, a sort of case that has always been recognized in Europe, at peace conferences, as reasonably valid. Yes, in Poland, the present line follows approximately the old Corzon line, which was tentatively agreed to by the associated powers at the end of the First World War. I think there was a good deal of disagreement among the Poles as to whether that line should be drawn, but that's just a side issue. It was an objective line drawn by someone outside the ring, as it were, and it is roughly the line that the Russians took. But is this kind of political economic penetration into these central European powers, is there any parallel for that historically, the way Russia is taking this territory over for all practical purposes? Well, I suppose this is really imperialism in the sense in which it's now long dead, the sort of thing that was done often enough in the 18th century, in the 19th century, but is not now done. On the economic side, it's not wholly bad. I think it's quite right that there should be trade between the satellite countries and Russia, as well as trade, of course, with the West, if possible. Yes, but trade doesn't involve necessarily political domination in the thorough-going manner in which the Soviets... Yes, that is the important distinction. On the contrary, that kind of political domination might very well stultify trade. A good deal of the trade, which is normal, goes westward from this area, and that, of course, is being cut down, not completely. Historically, the important trade was into Germany and not into Russia. Yes, but one must recognise that Russia is becoming an industrial state and may prove a much better supplier in time, and it can offer things like cotton, you see, that the West can't, the West in Western Europe can't offer. Ah, yes, but didn't the Soviet Union just get cotton from Egypt? Oh, no, they have a very abundant supply now that they say is greater than that of Egypt, Pakistan, and a third country together. But they also have a much larger population East. After all, just a few months ago, there was a trade agreement between Egypt and the Soviet Union, in which the Soviet Union gave some low-grade grain for some cotton from Egypt. There would seem to be an evidence of shortage of cotton. No, there's a shortage of high-staple cotton, I think, and, of course, they have a shortage of spindles, and so if Czechs will spin up the cotton for them, that's fine. Well, in due of the relatively low standard of consumer consumption in the Soviet Union still, isn't it rather premature to talk about surplus production of industrial goods for export to the satellite countries? Yes, I was thinking rather long-term there, but one should not think that there's anything improper, nothing but, it's quite healthy, that there should be a flow of trade between Russia and the satellite countries. I still don't see that that ties in with political domination. No, it doesn't excuse political domination. And it is, this political domination has very definite economic orientations with regards to the Western states, the states of Western Europe and the United States, and there isn't any attempt to carry on normal trade relations with this part of the world. Because that raises the question, doesn't it, whether this expansion of power into Central Europe is purely for defensive purposes and may not represent offensive aims? What do you think about that, Hartzman? Is it for defensive purposes? Well, I think that... Because I, frankly, I'm amazed at the equanimity with which you geographers appear to accept this, this economic penetration of countries all around Russia. It looks like preparation for military offence to take these countries over. That's the position that's generally taken here in America East. Are we wrong on that, do you think? Oh, I think strategically that is the idea, that here's a bit more space that'll protect Holy Russia, if we can call it that still, from invasion, direct invasion. It's so much more room for manoeuvre. It puts the... If Russia's attacked, and it has been attacked, of course, many times in its history, it has a little more chance of defence of outside Russian soil. I don't think that one can understand Russian foreign policy at all unless one tries to envisage how the Russian mind is thinking. And it is clear that there is a real obsession within the Soviet Union about possible attack. From the West? From the West. This is part of the Communist dogma, that the capitalist world will not allow the Communist state free, independent existence. And they've really felt it from the West a number of times in the past, haven't they? And they have good reason to... Napoleon? Yes, I think that's an important point. After all, the West is the vulnerable frontier of Russia. It has been attacked three times in 25 years. World War I, 1918 to 20, when the Volshevik Revolution was just started. And, of course, in World War II, it was aggression from outside and from the West. So it's not surprising that there is fear, particularly, of course, that a dictatorship, in any case, lives in fear. Do you think Russia is now a territorially satisfied power? It would be hard to find evidence for that. But we certainly find evidence that Russia is looking, has been looking at other areas which they have not taken. They pulled out of Iran only under heavy pressure. They were working through the Greek Communists to get control of Greece. They brought pressure on Turkey. And each of those cases they pulled back only because of strong outside resistance. And there's certainly no indication that they've forgotten about the Straits, I think so. No, I think that's always been a Russian objective. And, of course, what the Soviet Union does is what Russia did. It is Russia very much as it was with some minor and rather small differences. And, of course, the Turkish Straits, since it leads to a very important region of Russia, the South, Ukraine, etc., must interest them. And they might say that for their defense they would like to control it. But we have noticed, I think, that although they'd like various such points in and around their territories, when there's hard opposition, they pull up. They know where to stop. Well, they may be a satisfied state and may not wish any more territory. One might be able to make a case for them being satisfied. But they have a doctrine. They have an international doctrine. And they have a whole scheme in which to include just any nation that wishes to come along. And we find that whenever such moves are made, why, there's always communistic control. And this rather dubious association which looks to us like a satellite relationship. Now, that is why we really must view that, take the view that they are expansionist, and that they really set no particular limits to the expansion. Malcolm, I wouldn't dispute you on that point. But I would question whether even without it, if they didn't have the communist dogma, whether Soviet Union as Russian power, which has expanded to the point, the present point of expansion, would not find it at any moment necessary to take opportunity to expand more. A power that has achieved such a dominant position as a result of expansion, always concerned with a possible fear of attack, will tell itself we must get more power in order to be in a still safer position. And, of course, this great strength of theirs has been a nationalistic type of strength. I mean, after all, the effort that they put out in World War II, the root of it, after all, a nationalistic feeling of expansion that we can't lose and that we're going to go on with this. Of course, the Russian history has been an almost continuous history of expansion. The only real recoil was in the First World War. And here, it seems to me, you have the marriage of a long history of Russian imperial expansion combined with an intense revolutionary dogma, combining the French Revolution with... But I think this revolutionary dogma gives further impetus to a natural tendency on their part to be expansionist. And it also gives them a way out, an excuse. They can dress up their intentions with a lot of ideology, which sounds good, which makes... Well, listen... ...influences people, and that is... I think that I agree on that with a lot that's just been said. They'd have anything contiguous to their territories that it was easy to get. But I would emphasize this point, and that is that they know when to stop. They've been pulled up in at least three or four major incidents on the European side since 1946. Turkey, Greece, the Berlin Air Lift, and such instances where they were pressing forward, but they've met hard resistance. And they had enough sense to stop tight. Well... Go ahead, Hartson. You say they know when to stop. Yes? Yes, when the opposition is clearly going to be very strong, and their military position at the moment was perhaps not very good. Certainly the Soviet Union, as a result of the destruction at the end of the Second World War, is very concerned to have a period at least of peace. Now perhaps they want to continue on the same basis, but how do... I have two questions. My first is, how do we know that? That they won't ultimately say, now we are ready for an all-out war. And the second question, which bothers me even more, I think they might want to avoid an all-out war indefinitely. I hate to think of our putting our trust in the intelligence of the 14 men of the Politburo. So far, they seem to have done pretty well. They haven't gotten involved in another major war, but how long? Didn't Stalin say that he knew when to stop and therefore he differed from Hitler? I think he did, but I think he got by by a very narrow squeak at Stalingrad. After all, these boys in the Kremlin are realists, you know, they know their figures. That's one thing they study to excess. They know the production of steel in America. They know how their total potential, economic potential, stands in relation to yours. I think they have shown, in Europe at least, to stay in Asia, is easier, and they're a little bit more dynamic. But they've been so very successful with a revolutionary technique which didn't involve war. Look at the manner in which they've taken over these six, or virtually, extended their political control over these six satellite states. And that process was not done by war. It was done from working within, by revolutionary methods. Yes. In a sense, that's how they got control of their own country in 1917 and afterwards. By that kind of infighting, so to speak, or revolutionary techniques within the society in question. Though the Russians pride themselves on being realists, I think there is a tremendous danger from their intense isolationism. The members of the Russian Politburo simply do not know how the Western world thinks. They may know steel production figures, but they don't know the real basic motivations, political motivations of the Western world. None of them has ever had Western experience. They merely reinforce their own ideas within their in-group, within the enclosed clique. That may be true, but they see the obvious things. I mean, they realize strength when they see it. I mean, they appreciate armored divisions at their true worth. They must have been impressed by the airlift to Berlin and the efficiency with which it was carried out. It's obviously that, that is the kind of thing that impresses them, strength. Well, now we've been discussing Russia's motives here. What does this territorial expansion mean, anyway? That's our question today, Harris. Well, there are three main aspects. The question of military position, the question of economic potential, and the question of political expansion. We have been dealing somewhat with military position. I suppose we go on to the question of economic potential. Well, specifically, do you think Russia has gained a military advantage substantially by this territorial expansion? Oh, unquestionably tremendous advantage and some disadvantages. But they have more territory, they have more population, they have any potential enemy much farther from the Soviet borders. What have they gained economically, Proudfoot? Well, they've gained a great deal. I mean, if one includes, if one takes the view that the, that these friends are theirs, these satellite states are really within the same system. They've gained enormous coal reserves in Silesia. They've gained rather substantial petroleum reserves in Plesty and some in Poland. And also zinc and lead in the Silesian area. From Hungary, they've gained bauxite. And this whole area, from the standpoint of future industrial development, has a great deal of undeveloped hydroelectric power in the Carpathians and Transylvanian Alps. There's a good deal that can be done here. Plus the fact that there is a large amount of surplus agricultural population which, ere long, can perhaps be industrialized. These are nearly all raw materials that you've mentioned, Proudfoot. One I should, I think, also add the important machinery producing capacity of Czechoslovakia, which is a more advanced economic state. Hartshorn, you made an important study of Upper Silesia at one time. How do you view the value of Upper Silesia? Well, it's a tremendously important resource, one of the major coal fields of Europe, previously less developed than the Ruhr, but with perhaps almost equal possibilities in coal. It's much farther from the iron. But I'm wondering whether most of these resources that you mentioned, Proudfoot, would have to be developed primarily for the use of the people in the satellite areas. Of course, you've got to... That's very true. If they are developed for the people in the satellite areas, then these people have materials. They develop an industrial capacity, and then instead of being just so much manpower, which can't really be effectively used, if they then become allied, and with this development with the Soviet Union, then they're effective manpower, and it increases the military potential of this total block. Particularly important in this Upper Silesian coal, which is the main coal source for all of these satellite powers, and the natural coal source for some of Central Europe outside the satellite. For example, Austria gets its coal most economically from Upper Silesia, and this has partly been cut off. But can Russia hold this vast territory together? Can she assimilate the populations of these newly acquired territories? What do you think about that? Well, of course, the Soviet Union, the United States, is a federal structure, and that gives it great flexibility. It has, I don't know how many separate ethnic groups and nationalities, and it is always proudly acclaimed, proudly argued, that it has done its best to give freedom to the cultural groups, languages, and historic traditions, and so forth, so that to add some more from outside wouldn't raise any great difficulty, I think. It's, it's, it's, you, you suggest that analogy with, with the United States, seriously? Well, I, I, I, I ought to have made a point. They would not set out to, to assimilate, as your, your question asks. They would include them in the Union, but if they were developed groups, they'd leave them, uh, free as to their cultural interests. It's, it's true that the Soviet system supports any number of different cultures, and encourages different cultures in their cultural development, and they have freedom to use their own language, provided that is, that they all say the same thing in whatever language they speak. Yes, that must be assumed, yes. Yes. It seems to me they're running into a, a, a new difficulty in taking in peoples who have had an organized nation, not merely a cultural national group, but a national group as a political group. That they have not had before. They had the Ukrainians, who had, some of whom had national aspirations, but they had never had a national history. Yes. But if they attempt to include the Poles, who have had a very proud national history, they may run into very serious difficulties. Yes, of course they, they did run the Poles as part of the Empire, from 1815 down to, uh, Great World War I. Um, so they feel, if they've done it for that length of time, they might feel they could do it again. And it is, it is, of course, a Polish, it is a Russian general, isn't it, that commands the Polish army. With dual nationality. I should just like to point out that there was a certain amount of Polish disaffection that, that lasted during the entire Tsarist regime. Oh, that is true. And their control over that portion of Poland. In fact, one might even make a case for the fact that the treatment in the past of the Russians, of the Poles during that period, is the principal reason why we may have some very important disaffection in the future. Yes, it may well be so, but it's not easy to disaffect nowadays against guns and the control of radio and all the modern means of government. That's the insidious thing about it. These modern tools that they have for affecting their, affecting their control. And that, in that sense, you are right. They may be able to completely neutralize some of these previous tendencies on the part of these people. Of course, Yugoslavia has been successful in, in breaking away from that control East. Yes, as Hartzorn reminded me this morning, it was a country that, that had not been occupied by the Russians or liberated by the Russians. It fought its own way through the war and it's perhaps started off with a little better position. You used that phrase liberated by the Russians. What do you mean by that? Well, that is, that is the phrase they used, of course, in a propaganda way in the late wars. All countries used propaganda then. That is, would you say that Czechoslovakia was liberated by the Russians? They would have used that phrase, yes. Russia would have used it? Oh yes, certainly. What would the Czechs, how would the Czechs view that liberation? Well, the Russians came into Prague first and they did liberate most of the country as far as the, the people of Czechoslovakia are concerned. We were in a small portion of it, perhaps could have gone further, but as far as the Czechs are concerned, the main liberation job was done by the Red Army. This is a touchy point in Yugoslavia. I was in Yugoslavia in September and October and a number of people there told me bitterly that when the Russian military missions came in after the war and spoke of the liberation of Yugoslavia, it touched the national pride in a very sensitive spot because they thought that they had gained their own independence by their own partisan efforts. Another point in Yugoslavia is a good many of the people there felt that the Russians had been rather ruthless in taking economic goods from the country. It is because they, they, they swept, uh, a small booty, they swept anything they could from anywhere they were, from Manchuria to Germany. I would like just to add here, I think it's relevant, Finland's an interesting case, isn't it, where it's left with a free democratic, uh, government, parliamentary government within its frontiers, though of course it's powerless now to defend itself. But, uh, the Russians, you see, have obviously calculated that it's best to leave it free. Ah, but Finland, but Finland had been fighting against the Soviet Union, these other countries had not. That's the key distinction. Yes, I think they respect the Finns more for that reason, and that may, may be behind their rather tolerant attitude towards... Well, it seems to me Hungary and Romania did a fair amount of fighting against the Soviet Union, and in the case of Finland, uh, you mustn't forget that Finnish independence after World War I was one of the things which, uh, Mr. Stalin himself, uh, Yes. has in his name. That is to say, he went up there and made the, almost the, uh, the commencement address, so to speak, of, uh, giving Finland, uh, its, uh, its independence. And it's rather difficult for Stalin now to fully acquire an area which he made such, uh, flowery speeches about. Well now, throughout this, uh, discussion, you men have made a distinction between territory that Russia has annexed, and territory that has, has been brought under, uh, uh, political control. Uh, isn't that, after all, a pretty tenuous, uh, distinction, uh, East? Mm-hmm. This territory under, under political control is, is, is, uh, Russian right up to that hilt, isn't it? I suppose, really, this is rather a legal, legal point. Uh, some of the territory Russia, uh, controls, though is not within the Soviet Union, I suppose has no really good legal title as yet. But as you say, effectively, de facto, it's part of the Soviet realm, and it will take its, uh, take its cue from Moscow and virtually do as it was told. That even goes, of course, for East Germany, I mean, which is, uh, just as much a part of, uh, this whole picture as any other, uh, of the satellite areas. The great question, of course, is whether this is true in the Far East, whether the, uh, expansion of Communist power, as allied with Russia and China and elsewhere, is equally, surely, under Russian control. Yes, certainly a distinction must be made there, Hartshorn. Mm-hmm. The Chinese Revolution is more nearly independent, certainly, than the European, and the, it is farther from the base of Soviet support. It has a larger population and a much sharper, separate tradition. I don't think we can discuss this today. One area of ignorance is we don't really know the inner workings and the effectiveness of this control. How are we to know just exactly how the strings are pulled and the manipulations are done? On the surface, it would certainly appear like the control is rather complete. Uh, in economic planning, the integration of the various five-year plans of these countries, it would appear that everything has been done to affect such control. But we do know, uh, where the areas are. Are we going to consider, uh, the Far East area, what that advantage that is to the Soviet Union? Yes, uh, of course, going back to the China point, it has been suggested that some of the Chinese moves in the Korean War were not what Waska wanted. I don't know the facts, perhaps not us here do. But I think we must, uh, must realize there that China is, is, is not, uh, clearly in a satellite status, uh, compared with the small countries of Europe. Well, if we look at it from Moscow's point of view, what can Moscow hope to get out of, uh, China and Korea? Well, of course, it was the greatest. Is it a long distance off, or is it next door? Yes. Well, it's a great distance away. After all, the principal population of the Soviet Union is European population, is, uh, about between 75 and 80 percent within, uh, west of the Urals. And this, uh, Far Eastern situation is way off on the fringe, at the end of a long arm, so to speak, of about 5,000 miles, the other end of the Trans-Siberian Railroad. The real problem is a European one. Now, you, you, uh, men have given us an analysis of this, uh, Soviet territorial expansion. Uh, how does, uh, the, the policy of the, of the west add up in terms of what, uh, of this analysis? Does our policy make sense east? Well, I think this policy of containment and building up strength and, uh, tying up alliances amongst like-minded people, uh, is the right one. Uh, is the right one because strength is something Russians respect. And you can argue from strength with some hope of getting your views across. Um, discussion, uh, diplomacy, unbacked by power, is, of course, uh, not of this world. It's an unreal idea. You may have any hope for, uh, discussion and diplomacy in this, uh, crisis? Yes, I think we must keep open the door for discussion, prolonged, arduous discussion, uh, at all costs. We all agree that the Russian leaders are realists, and so if we can face them with power, they may be willing to come down to realistic discussions. Well, yes, if they're realistic, but our time is up. Well, yes, if they're realists, then our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does Soviet Territorial Expansion Mean? We want to thank our guests, W. Gordon East, Professor of Geography, University of London, Richard Hartshorn, Professor of Geography, University of Wisconsin, John C. Harris, Professor of Geography, University of Chicago, and Malcolm Proudfoot, Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, how should we economize in our national government? Our guests will be the Honorable Paul H. Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois, Charles Heinemann, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, George W. Mitchell, Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago, and Kenyon Poole, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. We invite you to join us next week when we ask, how should we economize in our national government? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Copper. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast to coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System. This ride has been a during this period per minute for 2,600 people. That's all. Let's look at.