Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable presents the first program in a new series on Problems of Asia. Taking part in this opening discussion of Problems of Asia are Dean Rusk, Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, David N. Rowe, Professor of Political Science at Yale University, Norton Ginsberg, Geographer, and Donald Locke, Historian, both of the University of Chicago. To open today's partially transcribed discussion, the first in a series on Problems of Asia, we present Mr. Locke. For the second time in a decade of hostilities in the Far East, today we are struggling to hold a small beachhead at the tip of the Korean Peninsula several thousand miles west of San Francisco. For what reasons and to what ends are Americans now fighting in Eastern Asia? Are we fighting in Korea merely to restore the division of that country to the 38th parallel? And if we do, what then is the future of Korea and of Eastern Asia to be? In an effort to throw some light on these and other complex questions, the University of Chicago Roundtable is beginning today a new series of discussions on Problems of the Far East. First, we hear Dean Rusk, Assistant Secretary of State, who is in charge of Far Eastern Affairs for the Department of State. Mr. Rusk will open the series by presenting a topic on American Far Eastern policy. Now, Mr. Rusk. I am delighted to take part in this University of Chicago Roundtable as it opens a series of discussions on the problems of Asia. With the aggression in Korea, these problems have now entered every American home. They attract our interests, stir our anxiety, and attracts our capacity to understand and to judge. Out of these discussions will come, I have no doubt, the impression that the problems of Asia are infinitely complex. They are. The impression that we need more knowledge. We do. The impression that answers are hard to compile. There can be no doubt of it. Emotions will be stirred, and the partisan controversy will flare. But much will be accomplished if only we are able to discover what the main questions are, and able to see that Asia is several times more complicated than we think, and able to appreciate that our relations with the great peoples of Asia are urgent matters for every American. Now, what are some of these questions which are bothering us about Asia these days? May I indicate what some of them are? How can we stop this flagrant aggression in Korea? On what conditions can we restore a firm and durable peace in Korea? How can we prevent the spread of the Korean fighting to other areas? How should we move to bring Japan back as a fully equal member of the community of nations, on a fair and equitable basis? Can this new Japan be secure from aggression? Can it earn its own living? Can it accept full national and international political responsibility for its own affairs? How shall we work out our relations with the Chinese people, in such a way as to preserve our traditional friendships? How shall we deal with the fact that present Chinese authorities on the mainland appear to be willing to act as a running dog for Communist imperialism in Asia? What should be the eventual disposition of the complicated and dangerous Formosa problem? How can the people of Indochina be given a fair chance to proceed with the building of their own institutions, free from violence and terror? How can the technical knowledge of the West be made available to the peoples of Asia, in such a way as to lift their standards of living without raising the specter of a new colonialism? To what extent will the peoples and governments of Asia join to work out together, and to accept joint responsibility for some of their common problems? What are our obligations to the Philippines? What remains for the Filipinos to do to give practical effect to the independence, and to the national aspirations which have produced this great new nation in the Pacific? How can we ensure that American interest and friendship penetrate to the villages and rice paddies, and to the great body of the common people of Asia? How can these new nations of Asia be secure from aggression, whether aggression by the dark methods of subversion, or by the flagrant use of armed forces across national frontiers? Those are some of the questions. There are hundreds more. Now how shall we go about to find some answers? On what basic attitudes shall American policy be rested? We know that Asia wants political independence. We also know that American policy rests upon the proposition that people should be free to select their own institutions, their own rulers, and should conduct their relations with other people on the basis of consent. Asia wants to find a way out of the misery and poverty which hold their minds and spirits in bondage. America is willing to assist them to lift their standards of living, to give them technical assistance, and to help them put more food into their rice bowls. Asia wants free and equal membership in the international community of nations. The United States has welcomed a new family of eastern states in this post-war period. India, Pakistan, Burma, Salon, Nepal, Indonesia, Philippines, Korea, and now the associated states of Indochina. Asia wants security from aggression and the destructive processes of war. The Korean incident reflects American determination to meet aggression, not on the basis of any narrow strategic interest of the United States, but because we know that aggression anywhere threatens the safety of us all. Now what do we Americans want of Asia? As a matter of fact, not a great deal. We want to work together with them for the purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations. You can find them in the preamble and in chapters 1 and 2. It means joint effort between us and people in Asia toward common objectives set forth in that charter. It means persistence, it means patience, it means some sacrifice on our part, and it means a considerable amount of effort on the part of individual American men and women who must leave this country to go out in far distant places throughout the world to do difficult jobs under the most trying circumstances. But I know that there is a natural sympathy and natural association of interests between America and Asia, and it is for us and for them to find what that is and act accordingly. Thank you, Mr. Rusk. Thank you, Mr. Rusk. We've just heard Assistant Secretary of State Rusk raise some of the major issues of American Far Eastern policy. Joining me in this roundtable to discuss these complex questions in more detail are David M. Rao of Yale University and Norton S. Ginsburg of the University of Chicago. As far as Asia is concerned, the attention of most Americans is centered now on the Korean wolf. But Rao, where does Korea fit into the total picture? I think that that is a very important question, and a question which, incidentally, points a finger right at one of the main predispositions of the American public about Asia, and that is that Asia is 100% a U.S.-Russian struggle for power, that in Asia all we're doing is fighting the Soviet Union. Now, we've got to consider Asia in this context, but I don't think that's the sole answer on the Asia business. We approach Asia only from that point of view. It's no go. You think that the American generalization, that Russia is the problem in Asia, is an invalid one. In other words, that the Asian problem is a problem in and of itself. I certainly do. Well, how do you see this, Ginsburg? Well, I certainly think that we'll be misleading ourselves if we speak about the problem in Asia. As Mr. Rusk has pointed out, there are many problems in Asia, and Asia itself is extremely diverse. As a geographer, I'm interested in finding out what area we're talking about. And that area, the Orient, it seems to me, is bounded by Japan on the one hand, Pakistan on the other, and New Guinea in the southeast. It's an Asiatic triangle that the British talk about. And within it, it's characterized by an infinite variety of diverse conditions, natural conditions and resources, of racial and ethnic groups, of cultural systems, of political forms of various kinds. So we have to deal, then, not only with one area, but with a diverse and broken area in many ways. Well, then, if Asia's problems are world problems, how and where does Asia fit into the world scene? In other words, what's its world setting? Well, the world setting is, without any question, the world setting that we find in general today. It's perfectly true that there are many other areas of the world, regarding which perhaps we pay too little attention. But, by and large, Asia is considered in a setting of the east-west struggle. And it seems to me that our present involvement in Asia today has a great deal to do with the previously announced American policy of containment. Containment, which, I take it, we'd agree doesn't seem to be working too well in Asia today. Well, I would... It was the question, where did we fall down on? I would certainly agree, Rao, that the policy of containment has failed, particularly with regard to the Korean situation. Would you agree, Ginsburg, that the Korean situation is a symptom of this failure of the containment problem, or do you think it is a much larger problem than that? Well, I think, Locke, it's certainly a larger problem than a simple one of containment. For one thing, while we are pursuing a policy of containment, while the Russians are pursuing, it seems to me, a more diverse policy of coordinating and integrating various kinds of interests in this Asiatic Triangle area. Is this an American idea of what Russia is doing, or is this really what Russia is doing? I'm constantly suspicious of our ideas of what Russia is doing, because I think so often they're founded upon misinformation, or lack of information. Well, I agree with you, Locke, but I think Ginsburg's question, he's raised a very important one. And I think, furthermore, that we not only have to look at what the Russians are doing, but we also have to try to find out whether there are any weak spots in the Russian policy in Asia. Is Russia, as somebody has said, winning all the friends and influencing all the people in Asia? Are there any ways in which we can prevent that? Are there any points at which we can point out that Russia is really following, as she seems to be doing in Korea, a pretty selfish policy of exploitation of peoples of Asia in her own selfish soul interest? But isn't it correct, Ralph, also, that certainly Russia, to this time at least, has influenced more people and has won more friends than we have in Asia? It seems to me that the American record in Asia since World War II has been constantly a declining one. Well, if you want to ask that question, I wouldn't answer quite that as you've put it. I'd say the Russians have made a bigger success of their policy in Asia, but as to whether that constitutes a real and long-range winning of friends, I'm not so sure. Yes, I think the long-range aspect, Ralph, is the most important one at the moment. I think it's true that Russia has made more progress, perhaps, than we have, and in many ways, by our default, at least in the short-run in Asia. Of course, furthermore, she has emphasized certain practical needs or desires of the people of Asia. For example, their interest in land, land ownership. It's something that Russia has pursued, whereas we have been somewhat neglectful of that item, except perhaps in one or two cases. Well, we've talked about what we want and what the Russians want, but it seems to me that the very pertinent question at this point is what are the people of Asia interested in? It seems to me that they are too often bypassed. I think that we can, for our purposes, divide their desires into their political ambitions in terms of self-government, in terms of nationalism, nationalism, nationalism that may very well be two-edged, directed against the Westerner and directed against the Russian. Again, of course, you have the economic aspect of their desires. And then finally, and I think to a very important extent true, and through all of Asia, the Asiatics are interested in military security. Well, I'd rather take issue with the last point, Locke. I'm not sure that the Asiatics, at least in this part of Asia, are particularly concerned with military security as a separate, distinct problem. I think they are probably much more concerned with economic security rather than military security, and with some elements of political security. Well, Ginsburg, I don't think that it's very realistic to try to separate military security from political security and economic security. I wouldn't try to separate them at all, but I do think that all three of these components are in the minds of the people in Asia that are planning for the future of their country. You can point to Japan, South Korea, Philippines, any other area you want to mention. I don't think you'll find anywhere that the top leaders are willing to let it go and put all their bets on economics and politics in this business. They're much too realistic for that. Let's take, for instance, Mr. Nehru. Nehru makes a great point of not taking sides in this war that's going on, this struggle between ourselves and the Russians. But Nehru has a very fine and efficient standing army, and, of course, Nehru may be at war with one of his smaller neighbors almost any time. Now, you couldn't talk Mr. Nehru with all his idealism into any policy of basing his future plans for India purely on economics or on politics. And I don't think you'd say anything different yourself. No, I certainly agree, Rao, that the three are closely intertwined, but there's certain questions of priority. Now, in the case of Mr. Nehru, it seems to me that his primary weapon for securing the support of his people and friendship with surrounding states would not be a military weapon, though he is a sensible and practical enough man to utilize whatever military tools the British left him, which was a good, sound standing army. And internally, too, Ginsburg, as well as in the field of foreign relations, we understand, for instance, that Mr. Nehru is very realistic about the internal security of India. He's supposed to have, and I think this is a reliable figure, about 20,000 political prisoners in jail in India today. Now, you see, this is not a mark of his reliance solely upon economic bribery or political propaganda to secure his program. He knows perfectly well that he's got to have measures, of course, to back those other things up. And as long as we admit that as an element, I don't want to argue about priorities because I think it's irrelevant. Well, now, look, Rao, assuming that this is true about Nehru and these 20,000 political prisoners, the question immediately occurs not only in India, but it seems to me in a great many other parts of Eastern Asia as well, I'm thinking particularly of Korea at this juncture, should we do business only with those countries whose political ideas and whose philosophies are like ours or whom we can approve of? Well, Locke, I think you put your finger on one of the most important aspects of American thinking about the Far East. And this aspect is this. Too many Americans believe that until and unless we can find regimes, the political character of which we fully approve, that we cannot work with regimes in East Asia. And this, you see, goes both ways. Now, there are people who apply it only in the direction of anti- so-called reactionary regimes. There are other people who apply it only regarding so-called completely communist regimes. I think it's unrealistic for us to assume that we must adopt policies toward countries only choosing those countries as objects of our policy where we can already find in existence those political features, the promotion of which should be at least one of the objects of American policy in the Far East. Well, how many such countries are there in existence in the Far East where we could find a political regime that would be satisfactory to us? Well, practically speaking, Locke, there aren't any. No, of course. Well, are you arguing that we clasp to our bosom all governments which are anti-communist no matter what their nature is? Well, now, Ginsburg, I don't care how close you want to get them to your bosom. That's up to you. Well, I don't care how close you, but I will say this, that to deal with these people, even if you hold them away at arm's length and hold your nose at the same time, it's something you've got to do. We found that out in the last war. After all, we had as our allies in the last war the country that we're now having the biggest amount of trouble with. That's the USSR. I take it this was not because we thoroughly sympathized with all of their political philosophy, but because in the short run there were reasons for us to cooperate. Yes, but underdeveloped areas of the Far East, isn't it possible that we may, through some means or other, work to create political institutions, which we are able to approve a little more heartily than we are of the regime in Korea, for instance? Agreed. Absolutely. But in order to do that, you've got to preserve your contacts and your power to influence these people. You think, for instance, it's not possible to apply our political standards, our political yardsticks, to the people of the Far East whose cultural patterns and whose traditions are so vastly different from ours. That's right, and I say it works both ways. I'm not going to apply that only in one way. I've seen that done so many times. If there are ways in which we can reestablish contact with the great masses of the Chinese people in order to try to influence them in our direction, we should by all means utilize all those avenues. Of course, Ron, the question still arises to whether we are doing the wise thing in dealing with regimes which do not necessarily control or have the support of the people within a particular country. In Indochina, for example, we have an example of that, where we are supporting Baodai and, to a large extent, the French, and a large percentage of the Indochinese, I don't know how many, are very unhappy about this. Well, then, you put your finger on a very important thing. I think we can state the situation rather dramatically by pointing out that, with the exception of Japan, and perhaps of Siam, there is no country in the Far East today where you do not have a country in the Far East today. Where you do not have a civil war of greater or lesser extent raging. Now, you see, because that sort of a nasty situation exists in all these countries and areas, all I'm saying is that we cannot allow ourselves the luxury of insisting that before we deal with any of these countries, they've got to get together and settle their internal squabbles and decide who it is. Are these just internal squabbles? It seems to me that they're much more fundamental than that. I think this dependence upon land, which Ginsburg spoke of before, has a great deal to do with the kind of revolutionary movements that are, uh, put in Asia and have been developing there for at least a generation or more. That's quite true, Locke. Land is a main factor in the social revolutionary situation in the Far East. Uh, the thing I'm arguing in favor of, I may be stressing this a little too much here, is this, that we cannot wait for the settlement of the land problem in any Far Eastern country, uh, along the lines which we would approve or even which the masses of people there would approve, uh, and take that as a prerequisite for following policies in those countries designed to promote their interests, at the same time to promote our own interests. relative to them. relative to them. relative to them. Of course, I'd agree with that, Rao. I, I do think that, uh, there are various ways to, uh, to implement, uh, any such program with regard to Southeast Asia, for example. We have to realize that the feudal system, uh, there is based in large part on the importance of land and the cultural frames of weapons of reference of these people. And if we are going to, um, certainly will Country, and learn from us, well, it'llций for some people we Stephan. Is that believe in many FM schools therefore all tribulations that we're taking in the European countries in all of �achten countries. And if we are going to help them, if we are going to gain friends and influence people, we have to indicate our interest in solving some of these land problems, these economic problems which are so important in those areas. Well, might it not be true that this economic aid that you speak of, which I think is embodied most in President Truman's Point Four program, is it not true that this economic aid might have a definite propaganda value at a time when American prestige is at a very low ebb in the Orient? Well, I would consider that lock to be extremely important. That is, that dollars can be used for political purposes. But I think the more long-range aim of Point Four is an attempt to bring the kind of political stability in which democratic values can be advanced on a basis of economic development. industrialization, fuller utilization of resources, fuller rice bowls as an end product. Yes, but can you put Point Four funds into the hands of governments who are, it seems to me, in a disreputable kind of condition? But you don't put Point Four funds into the hands of the foreign governments. They're American funds to be used to advance certain kinds of industrial development, and it's on a basis of intergovernmental agreement, but on the whole a matter of... The question of controlling it from this distance is an extremely important one. Of course, gentlemen, the problem arises as to whether the Point Four program in the hands of private enterprise in this country, which means a certain amount of separateness or atomistic application, is really applicable to the problems of Southeast Asia, where... Mr. Berg, I think you put your finger on it definitely. I feel myself that Point Four is valuable, desirable, and worthwhile from many points of view, but I don't think we can rely on it in any Far Eastern area to produce quickly enough, for our purposes, the kind of political stability that some of the planners seem to think will come out of it. Well, then you would contend, Brow, I take it, that we can defend our position in Asia, that our position is a logical one, that by following through on Point Four, by developing the military security by one means or another of these various Asiatic countries, that we will in the long run be able to contain Russia in Asia. Is that what you have been saying, or am I misinterpreting that? I'd say I'd agree with you very definitely. I think, of course, that the present war in Korea is an example of a failure of our policy along these lines. I wouldn't pick out any one of these three as being absolutely preponderant over the other, but we do have to face the fact that in South Korea, the preeminent failure, this is my opinion, you can agree with it or not, the preeminent failure has been in the realm of military security provisions. We, last year, ten months ago, the government decided not to hold South Korea and not to defend it in case of invasion. This brought on a whole series of decisions regarding the tactical and strategic implementation in the military security field, and the result was that when the North Koreans attacked, they went right on through very, very quickly, and now we got to redeem that situation. Well, then what can we do in a more positive sense? I mean, we're talking about what our failures have been. It seems to me that we ought to consider some of the issues, such as the idea of a West Pacific pact, which has often been advanced. What do you think of it? I can't see the value lock of that West Pacific pact, at least at this time. We're not dealing with the same kinds of areas in Asia that we are dealing with in Western Europe, where you've had long traditions of independent government and a high degree of internal organization. Here we are dealing with incipient, young, immature political units, and to tie ourselves to their internal difficulties might be more a mistake than a help to us in this world of power struggle. I'd say on that, Ginsburg, that I don't believe in the value of a West Pacific pact, but I do believe very strongly in the necessity and the desirability of having individual security agreements between the United States and individual countries of the Western Pacific, perhaps a la Philippine agreements such as we already have. Well, I feel that's dangerous too, sorry to interrupt, that we're falling, might be falling into the same kind of trap with the individual agreements as in the regional ones. Well, I tend to agree with Rao on that particular point with one very important addition, it seems to me, and that is that it's time that the American people began to realize that our Far Eastern policy ought to be something more than a political football. We have generated a great deal of heat and very little light on this whole issue. A great many people have spoken about it irresponsibly. It seems to me that people generally speak glibly and irresponsibly about the subjects which they know least. Therefore, it seems to me that it's an extremely important idea to resolve our political differences at home. I certainly agree with that, and I'd like to add that I feel that the problem in Asia is in large part a moral one. We have to justify our hard-boiled activities. Well, I think that's it, Ginsburg, really. We do not need to be ashamed of promoting American interests in the Far East, and we do not need to express our policies solely in terms of our selfish aims. There is a mutuality which we have, it's available to us, we must express it, we must make it quite clear to everyone, and primarily to the people of our own country, that what we're fighting for in the Far East is not only attainable, but desirable. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable, first discussion on problems of Asia, were Dean Rusk, Assistant Secretary of State for Far Eastern Affairs, David N. Rowe, Professor of Political Science, Yale University, Norton Ginsberg, Geographer, and Donald Locke, Historian, both of the University of Chicago. You'll want to order a copy of today's Roundtable pamphlet, which includes the full text of today's discussion and special supplementary material on the role of America in Asia. You will want to purchase copies of this important pamphlet so that you may have a permanent record of today's discussion and may read the additional special materials which will help you to understand the problems of Asia and what role America should assume in Asia. Individual copies are ten cents in coin. Send ten cents with your order to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. A four-year subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Next week, the Roundtable continues this series with an analysis of the problem of bringing a settlement in Korea. Don't miss this important program. Today's program originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago and was in part by electrical transcription. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.