Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses Latin America in the world crisis. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the factors which serve to coordinate the political, economic and military programs of North and South America. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Harvey L. Johnson, Professor of Romance Languages at Northwestern University, Paul S. Leeds, Professor of History at Loyola University, Felix Tanovicius, Consul of Uruguay and Resident Secretary of the Inter-American Consul of Commerce and Production, and Philip Taylor of the Department of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, where does South America stand in our struggle with Russia and her satellites? What positions have these South American countries, Taylor, taken in the United Nations? All of the twenty Latin American nations are members of the United Nations, and they have, as a rule, backed the United States largely in its power struggle with Russia. They have varied from time to time in their particular point of view. For example, in the re-acceptance of Spain, which came up in October of this year, there was some opposition by Latin American countries, but for the most part, they stayed together on that. Mr. Tanovicius, it is unquestionable in the Latin American mind that the Western Hemisphere is the last citadel of freedom in the world. And if freedom is to be preserved in the world, the Western Hemisphere must stand united against those who would enslave the world. Now, have these countries ever voted with the Russian bloc, do you know, Leeds? Yes, I think the most important decision taken was, as far as the Western Hemisphere is concerned, was taken shortly after our decision on Korea, the United States decision on Korea, when the organization of the American states, comprising the 21 states of the Western Hemisphere, voted to endorse the United Nations Council action to send military help to Korea. In other words, they voted with us pretty much, is that correct? They voted with us. Now, has their role been an active one, Taylor, or largely passive? It varies on the issue, but on some occasions they are very active. Uruguay, particularly, has been very active. Argentina, where Argentine national interests are involved, has also been quite active. Are these countries giving any direct aid in Korea? Do you men know? Yes, Colombia has a battalion of troops, which are under training now. They also have a frigate, which has been assigned and is in Korean waters at this time. You must not overlook the fact that all of the nations of the Western Hemisphere have voted in favor of the United States position on Korea. But it is also unquestionable that they must go through their internal processes of law in order to be able to provide such assistance as is found fit. There is also the question of consolidating the various offers that have been provided. And it is up to the Supreme Commander to determine to what extent he can accept this diversified offer. Yes, I think that is true. Perhaps it's a commentary on our own difficulties that Argentina has decided that she can't send troops without the consent of her own Congress. There is one point to be considered from a military angle. The use of a large number of small groups of troops speaking a language that is not shared by most of the commanders in Korea would be something of a problem of coordination. Two, only three nations are of large enough population to send armies of any strength to Korea. And since we can't count on her own support in Argentina, only Brazil and Mexico would be able to make much of a contribution from the standpoint of men. That's true. I think it's an evidence, though, of their great goodwill when a country like Panama offers volunteers, transportation facilities within her own country, and actual bases within Panama for training such Latin Americans as may wish to volunteer for Korean action. And those are exactly the steps that they took in World War II. We remember that most of those nations either placed bases at the disposal of the states, they assisted in patrolling their own coast, and cooperated in every way possible. Well, now, what factors, if any, to look at the other side of this for a minute or two, tend to work against a cooperative political and military effort that is between the South American countries and the United States? Johnson, how strong are communist sympathies in South America? Frankly, I'm not too worried about communism in Latin America. Soviet trade and cultural relations have been fairly negligible. Communism thrives in countries where you have great industries. And in most of the Latin American countries, industry is in its infancy. The rural population, I doubt, would be attracted by a collectivization of agriculture and by sweeping measures of control in general. Also, the upper and middle classes in Latin America would certainly be opposed to communism. To the army group, and in the countries where there are dictators, the army is certainly on the conservative side. And I shouldn't fail to mention also that the Catholic Church would be opposed inevitably to communism. I think that there is another aspect to it, though. Perhaps the high point of communist threat occurred about the year 1947 and has since declined, at least in outward form. But there is still, it is well known, an almost continental warfare going on at the labor level. For instance, in April of last year, a meeting of a communist-dominated inter-American labor union was held in Montevideo. And their two projects, announced there as their program for the hemisphere, was first an all-out attack on what they designated as Yankee imperialism, and then secondly, in case of a war with Russia, to deprive the United States of any economic support in Latin America. I think it is significant to point out that the businessmen of the hemisphere have recognized that the problem lies in the economic freedom of their respective nations. They have started a crusade for free enterprise, which was voted upon by the Congress of Business held in Santos. And that crusade has gone to the analysis of the underlying problems and has promoted a better understanding of the principles of freedom and of free trade and free economy, which goes a long way toward the solution of these problems and these threats. on the part of native labor organizations or local organizations in the Latin American countries. There is considerable opposition, however, to the attempt in some of the unions by the communists to dominate. And of course, as well, the CIO and AFL in this country are exerting considerable pressure, as they did in January in the Mexico City Conference. I'm wondering whether, Stenevisius, this, our Marshall Plan of aid to Europe has worked against South America and has tended to alienate South America, more particularly since the last war. Well, after the end of the war, the South Americans found that whereas they were selling under price ceilings, the price ceilings were removed shortly after the war in this country, and the goods which they had to import had increased tremendously in price. At the same time, the emphasis had been placed on a reconstruction of Europe. Where did that leave Latin America? Latin America felt that it was essential for its own self-preservation to develop its industries and to rebuild its worn-out equipment and machinery. And it therefore requested an understanding of its position in this world after the war. However, Latin America felt that it had not benefited from the aids that were given to foreign countries, but the position of the United States was that it felt that a reconstruction of Europe would relieve the burden on the United States economy to furnish the supplies to the rest of the world, and it would also provide a return to the flow of trade between Europe and Latin America. I might add that there was considerable disappointment after the announcement of the Marshall Plan when at the meeting at Bogota in 1948 in the same year, Marshall, our secretary, told them that the Latin Americans could expect no help from that plan, that they must borrow from the Export-Import Bank if they needed capital, or else look to private sources for their investment capital. Now, there's tremendous difficulties in that, I think we'll all agree. For instance, in trying to get private capital, many of these countries must find themselves under the necessity of making tremendous concessions. In our own Puerto Rico, it is found necessary to promise tax exemption to some of these corporations to get them to come in, and that tax exemption is for a period of 12 years from the time the company begins. Well, one of the problems that has been stressed is that of favoring an atmosphere and a climate favorable to private investment in those various countries. The Latin American countries have wanted to safeguard what they consider to be their national interests, and it is this problem of developing assurances and guarantees for private investments that has been of foremost importance. Now, if those guarantees are forthcoming, and if exchange is allocated to service and to allow the free movement of capital, then capital should be able to move freely into those countries. And that is one of the problems that we have to solve. The businessmen have tried, through recommendations to their respective governments, to safeguard an atmosphere of freedom as to flow of capital, and to guarantee fair treatment of foreign investments in their countries. There's a definite shortage of capital in most of the Latin American countries. And for that very reason, since they are dependent on exports, exports of raw materials, exports of a few materials which they're able to process, it seems that an average economy can only be maintained by receiving money from the United States or other nations. Well, now, are you men suggesting that we may have made a mistake in sending millions and millions into Western Europe and neglecting our own southern neighbors? No, I think it was a matter of first things first in terms of what was considered world welfare. It is not that Latin America is unimportant. It simply was that it was absolutely essential for the future well-being of the entire world, Latin America included, that Western Europe get back on its feet. Because before the war, Latin America did not trade exclusively with the United States, and it certainly would not have been healthy if they'd been forced to continue to do so after the war. Well, I'm inclined to agree with you only on the basis of short-term. If the crisis merits help for Europe at the moment, I still think we must not close our eyes to the necessity of some kind of long-term arrangements in Latin America. And you must realize the fact that when shortly after the end of the war, a survey was made of the economic resources of the Latin American nations, it was found that in the nations who are responsible for 90% of the trade of Latin America and whose population was 120 million, their national income, 120 million, their national income was equivalent to the national income of 20 million Europeans or only to that of 5 million United States citizens. Well, when you take that into account, and if you think of building up the economic strength of this hemisphere, you cannot forget for long the needs of the Western Hemisphere. The problem is further complicated in Latin America because most of the nations there don't have business or too much business with their neighbors. They're dependent on the consumer in Europe or the United States. Well, now we've been speaking here for a few minutes about some of the factors which militate against a close political and military effort. I'm sure, though, there are many factors which draw these nations together. Johnson, do you think it's fair to say that these South American countries are pretty much committed to the democratic way of life as we are? I'm convinced of that. If you read their constitutions, you see that they are molded on ours. And even where there are dictators, they object to being called dictators. Two, it's necessary to remember that in many cases, the Latin American countries didn't have the previous training in colonial government which the American colonists had. They are relatively young. They are making progress. I'm certain that no one on the panel would say that there's a regression. There definitely is progress in a democratic way of life. Well, Johnson, as you are a cultural expert, you know that the development of Latin America began earlier than the development of the United States. But it is also true that their freedom was conceived and born in a struggle for the freedom of man. Their independence, its source, is that of democratic principles. And I think it is well to remember here that when Uruguay, which is recognized for its democratic processes, when its new president, Martinez Cueva, assumed power, he restated those basic principles which I think voice the democratic principles of the Western Hemisphere. But is Uruguay typical, I wonder, of South America? Uruguay is typical and yet not typical. It is perhaps the most, of all of the Latin American countries, perhaps it's the most devoted to the principles of individual liberties as we conceive of them in this country. The average American, the person from the United States, would have no difficulty at all adapting himself to the point of view of the average Uruguayan. Would he have any difficulty adapting himself to the point of view of Argentina? He would have a tremendous amount of difficulty because, although Argentina's constitution is practically a verbatim translation into Spanish of the American constitution in many individual clauses, the meaning has been so changed in practice that it has little relationship. I second that in the sense that the constitutionalism of Latin America is sometimes a mere facade that you have to look deeper quite often. and sometimes two were disappointed. For instance, there was a great deal made of the tremendous progress, as it was called, of democracy in Costa Rica and in Colombia. And yet, in the last few years, there have been serious dislocations of their governments by a revolution. In spite of that, in most of the Latin American countries, you'll find that their neighbors object to a dictatorship. That's very true. Certainly, the almost mass condemnation of the action against La Prinza in Buenos Aires, which is now going on, has been made fell off. In connection with the constitution of Argentina, I should state, too, that it's been so revised recently by Perón that it is no longer modeled upon our own. He now controls the courts. He's able also to control the press, the radio, and mention has been made of his fight on La Prinza. I'm glad to state that most of the American journalists in Mexico City just recently spoke out in protest against his actions there. Well, we must also realize, however, that the principles of non-intervention are binding in this hemisphere. That's quite true. The principle was accepted in 1933 in the Montevideo Conference, and it's been continued ever since. It was an outgrowth, of course, of American intervention in the Caribbean, primarily. Well, to get back to the point of democracy for a moment, I don't think that we can discuss it here more than just as an academic question for Latin America until some of the basic problems underlying the situation are considered. I think that when you consider the poverty, the disease, the illiteracy in those nations, you must come to the realization that no real democracy can work there until some of those basic problems are taken care of. I've often maintained that I think that the basic principle of democracy is what you could call the ideology of the full stomach, and until you get that, at least to a certain, certainly to a larger extent than you have it in a lot of Latin America, you're not going to have really practicing democracy. Yes, democracy depends on economic prosperity. And education, too. How close are our cultural relations with South America, Johnson? In recent years, I think they have improved greatly. We, for the first time in the States, are aware of Latin America's role in the world. I think the Latin Americans, too, are greatly interested in us. The establishment of information centers, libraries, the exchange of professors and students has accomplished the Great Eel. Just last year, I think there were 3,000 Latin American students studying in our universities. We now have film libraries. We also have records which are distributed or they may go to the libraries to listen. I feel also that the Latin Americans, through the acquisition of English, are coming to know more and more of the States. There are thousands, verily thousands, of Latin Americans who are studying English. We've assisted in the instruction by holding summer courses for the teachers of English in the various Latin American capitals. I feel that our stock has gone up immensely in Latin America as a result of our cultural program. It's something that's very personal. Just recently, Brazil became aware of the importance because in the month of October of the past year, Brazil signed a mutual contract with the United States. and it, too, is embarking on a cultural program. Brazil recently established cultural centers in Paraguay and also in Montevideo in Uruguay. I believe that that's all a very fine summary of the program, Johnson. I might mention, too, that it's on the level of ideas that we have to wage this war to a great extent, but on the other hand, there is a danger that I'd like to point out. There is a danger, I think, in this cultural relations of what might be termed the attempt to impose some kind of an official way of life or some kind of a way of life which we consider to be possibly the common way of American way of doing things. Do you think as long as we keep sending movies down there, it'll... That certainly is probably a good way to get them off the track. Also, you should remember that many of our novels, for instance, Steinbeck, has been read down in the Latin American countries. O'Neill's plays are given in the centers and also in the theaters, so I don't think that there's too much danger in them getting a false impression of the states and the culture. We should not overlook that this also should be a two-way trade. The trade of ideas should also conceive of ideas being brought to this country and the languages of Latin America, Spanish, and Portuguese should also be learned here as well as a better knowledge of the culture of Latin America, which is its backbone, should be appreciated. And parallel to that, I think that we should realize that our economic development goes parallel to the development of ideas and trade of ideas. But are our economic interests complementary in the present emergency, Stenovisius? They are complementary as to needs and they should not become antagonistic. Among the big imports in this country, 96% of the coffee comes from Latin America, 86% of the cane sugar, 61% of the oil, 46% of the wool, and some of it from Uruguay. And what do they take from us? Among important U.S. exports, 44% of all automobiles and trucks go to Latin America, 40% of all textiles, 38% of all chemicals, 30% of all machinery, 30% of steel and iron products. I should mention that in 1949, the U.S. sold 40% of all its exports to Latin America. The importance of Latin America to the United States as a source of important raw materials will unquestionably increase, both in the defense period and subsequently. The question in turn is, which will be given favored treatment? That is, which will be put on a first plane? Help for industrialization of Latin America or industrialization only insofar as it helps defense? How would you answer that question? Well, I think that Assistant Secretary of State Miller in a recent conference declared that the United States will favor the industrialization of Latin America only insofar first as it helps defense. But we should not overlook the needs of the civilian economy of Latin America and the plans that are now in progress. The development of Latin America should be continued if we are to retain the goodwill and the progress that we have been trying to consolidate in recent years. While you're speaking, you forgive me for asking whether the South Americans are paying as much for our exports as we're paying for coffee. Well, I should say, for instance, that the Latin Americans in Brazil... You know, it's almost a dollar a pound now. We have found in Latin America that United States goods brought into Latin America frequently have gone up three times as much as Latin American goods have when they were exported into this country. That's the case of coffee. In other words, we're not paying too much for coffee. I think you answered it. Many of our organizations in the United States are convinced that this is not a measure just for the war. For instance, Rockefeller, through the American International Association for Economic and Social Development, has contributed a great deal to the Venezuelan economy. They have inaugurated new works. They've improved the rural regions of Venezuela. They have furnished some capital. And eventually, as soon as the Venezuelans are able to do so, the association, this American international association, will withdraw from the country and perhaps proceed to another. I think that formula that you've given us, Johnson, is something that could be developed further. It is one of the outstanding difficulties with Latin America that, as Mr. Senevicius just pointed out, when we import these raw materials from Latin America, we help to keep them in a kind of monoculture, in a type of colonial economy where we require them to send us their raw materials and we, in turn, send them our manufactured goods. It is resentment against that kind of thing that we feel so keenly in our relations with Latin America. I think one thing about our sending American goods down to Latin America should be considered that it's a problem, of course, of trying to get as much as we can to them, but also it's a problem of allocating what's available. After all, we may allocate, but at the same time, in a war situation or a semi-war situation such as we have now, only so much is available and you can't expect a political decision to affect what the physical plan in the country can put out. There is not to be overlooked the question of not overburdening any one nation or group of nations with the financial and economic weight of a war machinery designed to cope with the current world crisis. We must see to it that neither the United States nor the other nations of this Western Hemisphere will become bankrupt or seriously impair their national credit to open the door to an economic defeat from within which would pave the way to extremistic ideologies. Well, coming back to that same point, I think we must be a little bit tolerant of their protective tariffs, of their attempt to expand their internal industry, even though maybe at times it does come into competition with ours. We mustn't always desire the kind of situation that you have in the case of sugar where an act of Congress can turn them from rags to riches. Well, now, in discussing this economic cooperation with South America in the present emergency, on what basis should it be discussed, gentlemen, on the basis of equal sacrifice for all or in terms of each getting what they can? Well, it is generally accepted that equal sacrifice is essential for hemispheric cooperation and we should understand that the problem of basic strategic materials, that is, to increasing and assuring their production, providing and increasing their transportation facilities, providing effective distribution, and balancing of consumption are essential. The interchange of goods between the nations of the Western Hemisphere for defense and for civilian economy is the only way to preserve our way of life. Brazil has just made this point. It is coming to the United States, not seeking to enrich itself. It is coming to get what is absolutely necessary so that they can protect their own economy and also make a contribution. I mustn't allow us to forget either the basic problem that seems to me where, for instance, the annual per capita income of people in Argentina is $346. It goes all the way down to places like Haiti and Ecuador where the annual income per capita is $40, as against something in the United States in the neighborhood of $1,120. Although you can get a good stake in Argentina for a lot less than you can here. I agree. But you do agree. It's quite true. It's quite true. How much direct military support do you think we're going to get from these countries, Johnson? I think it'll be very little in terms of men. In terms of strategic materials, Latin America can produce about two-fifths of the strategic materials which are needed. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Latin America in the World Crisis. Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Harvey L. Johnson, Paul S. Leitz, Felix Stunovicius, and Philip Taylor. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss a question of considerable interest to all consumers. Do we face critical shortages? Our guests will be James W. Alsdorf, president of the Cori Corporation and the National Housewares Manufacturing Association. Martin Janis, president of Cuman Foods, Incorporated. Mark S. Massell, partner in the law firm of Bell, Boyd, Marshall, and Lloyd, and former consultant with the War Production Board. And Bernard A. Mitchell, president of the Mitchell Manufacturing Company. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the interesting and timely question, do we face critical shortages? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Dick Coughlin speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
