Fifteen years ago, when Hitler's hand was already heavy on Germany, there was a Jewish woman in Germany by the name of Rechefriere, who was now living in Israel, who conceived the idea of Youth Aliyah. Miss Old was then living in what was then known as Palestine. She was seventy-three years old, and we turned to her, we from America, and the people from Germany, and the people in Israel, and asked her to take responsibility for organizing and directing the immigration of children from Europe to Israel. And that movement became one of the great examples of a successful mass movement of youth. And upon this movement, Miss Old left the imprint of her own character, of what she was, as indeed she left the imprint of what she was on us. What was Miss Old? She was an educator. She was a teacher. A learned daughter of a learned father. She loved the American way of life. She loved its striving for democracy. And in herself she combined that which was best in America, and that which was best in Jewish thought and life. And now fifteen years have passed, and in Palestine, in Israel today and here now, we are having concurrent celebrations. Over there they're going to officially open the the Alonim Center for Youth Aliyah Children. Well, here we decided that we would want to give a citation in the name of Henrietta Zold to one whom we also loved and admired. We wanted the recipient of this first award to be a woman who was also educator, teacher, and guide. A woman who also loved democracy and the American way of life, and sought to extend that way of life into the far corners of the world, so that all peoples might enjoy security and freedom. We wanted to give it to one who had no thought of self, who was a great humanitarian. We wanted to give it to one who was friend of Israel, and who had helped us with the saving of the 40,000 children of Youth Aliyah. And so we did not have to search at all, for we went straight to the one woman to whom, in the name of all of these, we could say, please accept the first award in the honor, in the name of Henrietta Zold. Mrs. Rose both said that she would come this afternoon to receive the citation in person. And thus this afternoon we link the names of two great women of our times. A great American woman, great woman in the world of today. A great American woman, and one that served her people well. Henrietta Zold and Eleanor Rose. I read the citation. A very small check goes with it for Mrs. Rose to use as she sees fit. And when she rises to speak to you, I'm sure she will tell you what she wants to do with it. Hadassah presents the first award to Eleanor Roseveld, illustrious citizen of the United States of America, champion and teacher of youth, crusader for liberty, equality, security, justice, and peace. Advocate of the better life for millions now living and for generations yet unborn. And head of the National Youth Aliyah Advisory Committee of Hadassah. In recognition of her participation with Hadassah in the rescue and rehabilitation of the world rehabilitation of 40,000 Jewish children through Youth Aliyah. Madam President, distinguished guests members of the United States of America, and members of Hadassah. It is a very great honor to receive this first award and to have my name linked with the name of Miss Sould, who has meant a great deal to so many people. I think that I can hardly tell you how proud I am that you should have given this citation to me. And I would like to tell you that I have been very much interested in the young people whom I've had the good fortune to meet from Israel. The young members of the army, boys and girls who were here last year, some young people who'd come over here to speak and whom I crossed with on the steamer and who came in to have tea with me and talk to me, who lived in two different settlements and told me all about their their settlements. One an old one, one a new one. And then last autumn, when I was in Paris and couldn't go to Israel, I had a good fortune of having Mr. Morgenthau invite my grandson to go. And he came back back with a deep impression of what it meant to see a young nation being born, to see the enthusiasm of young people, but also deeply impressed by what that young nation could do for refugees, and a little bit ashamed that we couldn't do the same thing in this country. Nevertheless, I think probably that unselfishness which seems to be able to take other people and share with them in the most extraordinary way, will probably bring great rewards in the future to the young nation of Israel. I would like, if I may, to give this check back to you and ask you to have it made out directly in some way, so that it will be used for the young people in Israel, for the orphans as they come to the home. that you have established. I know that you already know of some specific thing that you're going to do with it. But I will tell you what that is because when this award was first spoken of to me, I said that this was what I wanted to have done, but that I wasn't going to be, I only wanted it to be used, in some way that would help the children coming there. And they seemed to have found a way to help the children. So that I am very happy that that is going to be done. And I cannot possibly tell you how pleased I am that this first award has come to me and that in the future, when you think of Miss Soud, you also have a little thought that something that I could do was done also in memory of her and of all she had done. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Kromoski upon Lola Kromoski, chairman of Youth Aliyah nationally, one who really knows Hitler's Germany and Hitler's Europe because she escaped from it, and knows Israel because she has seen it, to tell Mrs. Roosevelt what we're going to do with the check which he has just given us. Dear Mrs. Roosevelt, the road to Ramat Hadassah, the Henrietta's old reception center at Alonim in the Judean Hills of the state of Israel is a long one, and it originates from the very depth of the greatest crime and shame of humanity. But it ascends. It ascends to the brightness, to the light, to the warmth, to the security of a home, a home in the world's newest democracy, Israel. The music library, Mrs. Roosevelt, which we will give this center in your name through your generosity, will be a contribution to the cultural rehabilitation of those children who have at last arrived in Israel. Hadassah has a desire not only to provide the essentials of life for our children, the roofs over their heads, to clothe them, to feed them. This is indeed a tremendous task. But we want them to have, each one individually, the spiritual, the psychological sustenance, which will help them to grow and develop. It is this which was the concept of Henrietta's old ideas. This is which should be the spirit of this Ramat Hadassah Henrietta's old reception center. Here the children will come and live until they have become healthy again through happiness and joy. And joy very often in life is music. We thank you for this gift to Hadassah on behalf of the children of Israel. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
