Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Our program today is presented in conjunction with the nationwide observance of Mental Health Week, which is sponsored by the National Association for Mental Health, State Mental Hygiene Societies throughout the country, and a host of government and private agencies which are active in the year-round fight against mental illness. The slogan for the observance is, Build Mental Health, Our Nation's Strength. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses by transcription the question, Are we emotionally prepared for today's world? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the crises faced by a citizen living in today's world, his reaction to these crises, and the ways in which he can meet them. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our guests today are Dr. William C. Menninger, General Secretary of the Menninger Foundation and past President of the American Psychiatric Association, Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, Medical Director of the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene, and Helen Harris Perlman, Associate Professor in the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago. Mrs. Perlman and gentlemen, I think I can say without fear of contradiction that today's world is a world of confusion and conflict, a world full of fear and anxiety, a world in which the most frequently asked questions are, is World War III inevitable, and when will the A-bomb fall? When these become the major problems of our times, we go further to ask, are our 18 and 19-year-olds ready for military service? Are their parents emotionally prepared to see their sons go into the armed forces? Are men in the reserves ready to leave their families and businesses to fight on foreign battlefields? Are our children ready to live in fatherless homes? Are women ready to go into the factories again? Are we all ready to accept poor housing, rationing, and controls? Are we mentally prepared for a possible A-bomb attack? Are we psychologically prepared to hate an enemy again? Are we mentally prepared for a possible A-bomb attack? Most the recorded history of mankind there have been recurrent periods of great crisis. Such periods of stress have not resulted in complete breakdown or disintegration of society or the individual, nor are such periods incompatible with progress or creativity. In other words, during such periods of heightened stress we may find evidences of destructive and disintegrating forces existing side by side with constructive forces. You agree, Dr. Menninger? Yes, but I'd answer no to most of those questions you ask because I don't know whether anyone can ever be prepared for a lot of them. The way they were even phrased suggests the negative answer that nobody's ever prepared as adequately as he should be for such a terrible possibility. Well let's talk about some of these specific crises. Are we overly concerned about the the tense international picture now, Dr. Menninger? Well I I think maybe a few people are. I think there are a lot of people that aren't very much concerned. And it seems to me it depends so much on one's point of view about this whole matter. I think as a realist I'm very concerned. I think we have faced a very, very grave danger. It seems to me we've got a dagger over our head and we're sitting on a cake of dynamite. But it's it's certainly equally true. I'm sure that there are a lot of other people who don't feel concerned and whether it's because of their point of view in life or because like one of the defense mechanisms that we use psychologically. I just don't want to open my eyes to things I don't want to see. In other words people are reacting differently under these crises. I don't suppose I agree with you Dr. Menninger. I don't suppose anyone really could be overly concerned about a situation as holocaustic as that which faces us. But don't you think it's true that most of us live with the prospect of an H-bomb and the prospect of a third world war somewhere on the periphery of our concerns? And that most of us live and I suppose human life is really made possible by the fact that we occupy ourselves every day with a small everyday concern you know of mothering and fathering and being a student and being a worker and all the rest of the small things by which we live and which in large part take up a great deal of our anxiety. Well sure they do. I don't disagree with that at all. And it's the more reason why I think more people ought to be thoughtfully considering how we can best release our tensions and the stress that so many of us feel. I think I would want to predicate my remarks and I think this includes all of you folks in the assumption that God knows we must avert war if there's any conceivable way of doing it. And I think there are conceivable ways of doing it. But the fact that that may be my first and primary aim doesn't excuse me it seems from being realistic enough to know that lots of us are under terrific tension because of the international situation, because of our own national situation, which certainly has for some time now been quite confusing to many of us. In other words such things as the findings of the Keefe offer committee about which we're quite concerned in the recent MacArthur incident. These are things that which you expect to occur and these are things which we should be somewhat emotionally aroused about. Is that right? Novick, what do you think about that? Yes, I think we should be emotionally aroused. But as Dr. Menninger has pointed out that the tremendous amount of anxiety which some people manifest either by running away and saying the problem does not exist or by becoming overactive in a panic sort of a way is a reflection of personal problems that they may have and these world crises merely serve to bring those out. Well don't you think we become sometimes overly concerned when we for example see flying saucers or for example when we make communism a boogeyman? Aren't those evidences that we are overly concerned more than we ought to be really? I wonder, I don't want to sound like a Pollyanna, but I wonder if we are more acutely and tightly concerned these days than people were let's say in the 1920s when the political scandals burst open and back in days immemorial. I think one of the things that we constantly forget is that today we have ways of counting mental disturbance which were not had until recently. That is, there are statistics now. Moreover, today we have means of communication that we have never had before. That is, the very fact of radio programs and television programs and the movies and the newspapers which bring to the public eye the existence of disturbance and upset seems to mean to many people that there is a greater incidence of disturbance now than there ever was. I wonder about that. I question it very much. I think that what you bring out though is merely another evidence of a changing world. And this change, the newness, a new experience provokes anxiety in some people. And they demand simple answers, yes or no, or what can I do if such and such a thing happens? Oh, but I think you're ducking part of that question, Trudy. This question of the incidence of mental illness, which I know you're asked as frequently as I am, and which I admit is very difficult because we don't have statistics. And furthermore, as one asks that question, always my return answer is what do you mean by mental health? Because the old concept that still so many people have is that somebody's got to be crazy before they're mentally ill. Whereas our present concept of mental health is a very, very much broader one than that of how the child gets along in school, or how the worker gets along with his supervisor, or what happens when your child becomes critically ill. And all of the emotional concomitants in such situations which we now think of in terms of mental health. And I don't think there, maybe it is in part a matter of change, but I'm sure you must be asked that question lots of times. Is there more mental ill health? My answer is, if one includes the 160 million of us in America and recognizes that each of us at times have our emotional problems, of which because we're a little more intelligent about it now, we become cognizant more often perhaps in the past. In that sense, yes. In terms of the number of people going into mental hospitals, I don't suppose there are any more than there have been, except in the older age groups. Well, I'm still worried a little bit about this, the average man, and I think he faces a tremendous situation here. I think the demands of today's world are extremely critical. For example, on the one hand, the average person is asked to love his neighbor, he's asked to support the United Nations, and then on the other hand, he's asked to arm and to hate his enemies. I just wonder if that doesn't make an extreme demand on the average person. Novik, don't you think that's pretty critical? It makes a tremendous demand upon the individual, but I think that the number of breakdowns, even if we speak of it in terms of mental illness, although I'd much rather speak of it like Bill Menninger has done, in terms of slight deviations of mental health, we could reduce those if the individual was at a thorough understanding and the proper motivation for being asked to hate. That is, if a person felt that they fought to protect themselves or protect the values they held, then there would be no dichotomy between loving their neighbor and protecting that love, so to speak. If they were asked to fight for something instead of against something. All right. All right. Dr. Menninger? Well, I would only comment this. I don't think that anybody's asked to hate. I think our trouble is, all of us hate sin aren't much without ever being asked to hate. And I think that the basis of our international problems, the basis of our family problems, the basis of so many of our social problems is related to the deep instinctive drive in all of us to hate. And therefore, the problem is how to learn to love enough so that you don't have to hate, or that in the sense that the hate is neutralized. Now, this business that you ask, the question you ask about cooperating and supporting the UN and to love our fellow men, and then on the other hand, arm. Well, why are we arming? It's because we feel it's the most constructive way to prevent war. Or at least that's the rationalization that I have about it. God knows. But do we all see that? Do you think the man on the street sees that, Dr. Menninger? Or does he see a problem situation there? Well, no, I suppose he's instinctively all of us think of ourselves first. It's the best way to save his own hide, to prevent, if we're militarily strong enough, that it will prevent and save him. I think, though, that a lot of thoughtful people believe that we should develop a strong, striking military force as the best precaution against war. I don't take any stop whatever in this business that we're building a large army so that we can become a militaristic nation. That's the bunk to me. I don't believe that. I believe we're conscientiously trying to see the best way to avert war. You've reconciled those two beliefs, then? Well, to me, they aren't contradictory. I think we've got to quit hating. And the best way that we can prevent that outbreak would be the prevention of war. Well, what did we learn about all of these problems during the last war? What did we learn about the soldier in combat and the civilian under daily bombing? Did we learn anything about how he reacts under times of stress, Dr. Menninger? Sure, I think we learned a very, very great deal as to how people reacted. But then again, you see, you can't generalize about that because it varies within the individual from individual. It varies within the person from time to time. It varies on what the external stresses were or are and various kinds of internal supports that we have. For instance, there were certainly some simple lessons that I think would be general statements. That the man who grew up in a home in which there was a considerable reservoir of affection and equanimity and a happy family was competent to withstand a lot more than the individual that didn't have that opportunity. Now, sure, there are the things that I've talked so many times about that I think the most important factor in mental health, and I think it applies governmentally-wise right now, as it did in the Army, and that was the kind of leadership you had, where you had a strong leader who made his men feel they were individuals and not just numbers. The kind of individual as a leader who could give of himself enough to strengthen and support those fellows that he was leading, we never had to worry really about psychiatric casualties. Well, I'm wondering whether one of the things that came out of our observations in the last war, I think I tend to agree with what you'd say, was not that when people are facing a common difficulty, there is a sense of belonging and kinship which is tremendously supporting to the individual in security. And I suppose that one of our problems in making people emotionally secure for the crisis we face today and are going to face tomorrow and I'm sure will face in years, whether we can make some good company of belonging around common cause other than the destructive causes of war. I mean the common causes of, let's say, basic security for all persons, is a good common cause for which to fight a good fight and to which people can belong, provided we have leaders to help us see that. Dr. Novick, you're working in community work all the time. Does that make sense to you? It makes sense. I have two points I'd like to bring up here. One is the common cause, which I've previously spoken of as proper motivation, and the second thing is the question of leadership. You have pointed out, Bill, how important it is to have good leadership and that the number of breakdowns was reduced as the leader was a better leader. That brings the opposite side of the picture into focus, and that is the question, how does the individual react to a leader? Will he accept the leadership or will he rebel against such leadership? And that, of course, brings us back to the home with the parent, particularly the father, as the prototype of all leaders. Well, I'd like to propose, for example, that a good common cause would be what Dr. Menninger spoke of before, that is, work by religious leaders and recreation leaders and educators and whoever. Parents. Yes, I was going to say, for the good normal home, that is, the place where two parents live and like each other fairly well and where they have children and relate themselves to those children, not only as loving parents, but as parents who respect their children and who, in the course of everyday living, give their children some idea of what the democratic society is like. That is, that there can be difference in a home without there being complete disruption. That people can have different points of view and still be accepted and loved. Now, as a person in social work, I recognize that basic to this kind of love security must be a certain basic economic security. And for this, we've far to go yet in order to achieve this. I think the point you made a while ago, I'd like to endorse, if I understood it, namely this sense of unity, which would go so far to strengthen all of us and reduce our tensions where it is possible to develop it. And, of course, that's not at all unrelated to leadership. And whether it's in the home or whether it was in the B-29 crew or whether in the vernacular of the Army, which everybody knows, of course, if you found a unit in which the man could honestly say it's the best damned outfit in the Army, you didn't have to worry about morale or about mental health. No, if every family felt it was the best family, every community felt it was the best community, and if our nation really could be united. We were united after Pearl Harbor for a couple of months, and then that united feeling kind of dissipated, and it made it, of course, so much more difficult within the armed forces to motivate men, to get them to do a tough job, because they didn't have this feeling of being part of the team. Do you think it's possible, as you understand the tremendous heterogeneity of this nation and its size and its population, and the very fact that conflict is essential in democracy to a considerable extent, do you think it's possible that we can maintain that kind of unity that you saw in Africa or whatever? I don't think you can have conflict when we're facing a crisis with a potential enemy that can destroy all of us. Now, if we're going to sit here and quibble about the conflict of whether we should be prepared to meet that kind of a crisis, I just don't believe in that kind of conflict and feel that we have a chance to survive. I think it's terribly self-destructive. Well, what can the government do? Can they inform the public? Do you think that will help to keep us united? Can they work with all of us and see that the democratic process functions? Are those some of the things that we can do, Dr. Novy? Certainly, if each individual knew more than, it is my guess, people know about the situation at the present time, and didn't, as has already been pointed out, try to run away from the situation by saying it does not exist. And if the individual, with the help of the government, and also with his own help, could find for himself a little niche where he would feel that he is contributing something towards the goal, that that would be of tremendous help. In other words, what I'm suggesting here is, one, informing themselves, and second, getting into some purposeful activity. I'd like to pick that up, because it seems to me that when you say, can the government inform people, certainly efforts are made to inform, and yet many of us retain our individual right to be uninformed or to believe that the information is different from what we've been told. But to pick up what Dr. Novick has said, it seems to me that in the face of any crisis, a number of commonplace, everyday kinds of things make for stability. One of them is the floor of security that the home offers. Another is some sense that there's opportunity for the asking or for the trying. That is, I can find on the outside of my home, in school or in recreation places or in the church or in clubs, some place where I can tie in my efforts. And the third thing, I think, that makes for emotional security for us everyday people is the sense of hope. Hope, that is, hope not that something's got to happen because I'm so desperate, but rather that something can happen because I make it happen. Now what I'm trying to tie back to is that the everyday citizen can, it seems to me, alleviate his anxiety about crises and at the same time tie it in constructively by tying himself in to some fraternal order or union or professional group or whatever, where he makes his will in relation to the present crisis known, takes some action in relation to it, and becomes a part of his government. You think then that action in and of itself is at least a partial answer to this question, what the individual can do to meet times of crisis? I think it's certainly a way of binding up anxiety and perhaps channeling it constructively. Dr. Menninger, that's your bailiwick. May I interrupt for a minute? Not action in and of itself, because I think that that may leave us with a false implication. A mob also acts in one's, while directed, purpose of action. All right. I think probably you've indicated here that these are some of the things the home can accomplish, some of the things that we can do in the community and government and so on. And I think perhaps you believe that these are the things that will stand us in good stead when we face these times of crisis. Now, aren't there times of unusual crisis that we cannot prepare for? To take an A-bomb attack or a Third World War. Is there anything at all that we can do in times of such unusual crisis? Dr. Menninger? Why, sure, we can do a lot of things. That's the whole business of civilian defense is based on the principle that we're going to do some planning. Instead of having confusion and panic, I would hope that we have some kind of an orderly system. It may all go to pot, but I certainly think we'd be far worse off if we don't plan and prepare for it. Now, you ask what can the government do? I think it would be presumptive for me to say what the government does, but I have a very strong conviction that one of the things I should do to relieve tension, to perhaps help, and that's to express myself to the policy makers. I think that if something is destroying my family or my community or something of that sort, and I sit back and do nothing but twiddle my thumbs and gripe, I'm not a citizen carrying out a citizen responsibility at all. And when you only get 30% of people voting, there's something wrong. And they cook in their own anxiety, don't they? We do. We're just doing our own juice. Well, we certainly reacted following the MacArthur incident. Would you think that that was a normal reaction or the type of reaction we want? Or is that overly good? That's out of my bailiwick. I'm aware of a lot of emotional turmoil that results in our apparently don't know who we believe, or what is the fact, or the facts. I'm aware of that, but I don't think I'd want to comment on that. We were talking about leadership a minute ago. Dr. Novick, do you think we can help ourselves in terms of more efficient leadership all the way up and down the government line? Well, certainly the importance of good leadership was amply demonstrated in the military services during the last war. And I think we can draw a parallel and say that good leadership would help the mental health of the civilian population. And such good leadership means not only a good leader in Washington or at the top of the UN, but also means a good leadership in our local government and good leadership in our voluntary agencies and good leadership in our own homes. It goes all the way up and down the line. May I just utter a mild protest there? I'm always afraid when people speak of good leadership that they're leaning toward the paternalistic father ideal. I think that we must remember that good leaders are made by the people when they represent the people. That is, I think of the French revolutionist who said, the people are on the march, I am their leader, I will follow them. That's what I want in a good leader, someone who represents me and who executes the people's will. And that can only happen when the people make their will known. And then, too, we have to have faith in leadership. There's a certain amount of activity on the part of those who follow, isn't that right? Quite so. And giving trust and faith and so on when we do receive good leadership. Mrs. Perlman, you were talking a little while ago about this floor of security. I wonder if you would tell us a little bit about what you meant there. Well, I think of it as a floor which is made up both of economic and affectional planks. That is, the plank of security that the child has when he knows that there's something to eat when he's hungry, and someone to cuddle him when he's tired, and a pair of roller skates when he wants to play. He should be able to take that for granted. And the floor of security of affection, of knowing that he's loved, even though his parents may be angry at him sometimes, and he belongs to a family. This as floor of security. Then added to that, of course, the security of knowing that there is a place where he can pursue his education, teachers like him, that school is interesting, that there are places where he can play, that there is medical care if he needs it. These kinds of things bolster people's inner security and prepare them for crisis. Well, all of that I can definitely endorse. But I would like to repeat once more the indication that it would be advisable for people to keep themselves informed of all that is going on around them. And then to try to join with others in some activity that will lead towards their desired goals. Well, I'm sorry, Mrs. Perlman and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, are we emotionally prepared for today's world? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. In the next few weeks, the reviewing stand will present exciting discussions on music, old age, credit control, and other interesting subjects. Why not ensure that you will have copies of these programs by subscribing to the reviewing stand? A subscription costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. William C. Menninger, Secretary of the Menninger Foundation and past president of the American Psychiatric Association, Dr. Rudolph G. Novick, Medical Director of the Illinois Society for Mental Hygiene, and Helen Harris Perlman, Associate Professor in the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago. For further information on how you can participate in the mental health movement in America, make inquiry to your state mental hygiene society or at the National Association for Mental Health, 1790 Broadway, New York 19, New York. Next week, the reviewing stand will face the question, Why music? Our guests will be Rudolf Gans, noted pianist and conductor, Louis G. LaMair, President of the American Music Conference, and Ralph Martiri, popular arranger and conductor. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Why music? The reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast each week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.