UNESCO presents the human story. In the beginning, all was land and sea and sky, and the storms came and the winds blew and departed again, and all was quiet on the face of the earth. And as the years counted their numbers in millions, the sun shone down and gave its warmth, and the first small beginnings of life began to stir uneasily amid the strange, unknown wildernesses of nature. The first beginnings that reached ever onward and upward to the final achievement of the most wonderful of all works of creation, mankind. The story of a long, relentless struggle for survival. First against the forces of nature, and then against the artificial dangers that man has created for himself. That is the human story. Very early in this fight for existence, men discovered the advantages of living in groups. It was easier to hunt that way, and life was safer, fuller, and richer. Natural enemies could be dealt with and even mastered, and reasonable security assured for the future. More than all this, group living gives the comfortable feeling of belonging to something bigger than ourselves, something more lasting than our mortal bodies, something wiser and more experienced than our individual brains. And by passing on these treasures from father to son, from generation to generation, men develop what we call a culture. To keep their culture alive, men turn events into stories or sing about them, make plays, and dance. It's the surest and best way of keeping the group together and keeping the tribal life in a healthy, active state. In advanced communities, this is done by specialists, and you have to pay to go in, but in primitive tribes, everyone joins in the fun, especially when food is plentiful and everybody feels friendly. That is the time to enjoy songs about tribal doings or local gossip, like this curious chorus from Central Africa. When the little human group can rely on a fairly orderly food supply and all the housekeeping has been passed on to the women, the men have time to relax, to laze, to dream. And the dreams of men know no limits. They want to explain the entire universe and their own place in the scheme of things. When this is achieved, they feel a greater sense of security and importance than before. At early dawn, I watched the rising of the sun, which is the palace of the great spirit, who, it was said, made the world. My father taught me to call that spirit Kishamonidu, the benevolent spirit. For his ancestors taught him no other name to give that spirit, who made the earth with all its variety and smiling beauty. The benevolent spirit is a kind spirit. His benevolence I saw in the running of the streams for the animals to quench their thirst, and the fishes to live in. The fruits of the earth teemed wherever I looked. Everything I saw smilingly said, the benevolent spirit made me. This desire to seek a pattern and superhuman approval for existence is age-old and universal. It is the starting point from which man develops the idea of having special rights over the rest of creation, the right to preserve his life against the animal world, the right to prosper, to reap the fruits of his harvesting or hunting, the right to protection against other human beings who might threaten him. To safeguard these rights, complex modes of behavior, taboos, fixed traditions, and divinely inspired laws are built up, all of them designed to make life possible, safe, and worthwhile. It is the business of dealing with the uncertainties of nature and of human affairs. Not all social groups seek to solve these problems in the same way, hence the wide variety of customs, practices, and beliefs throughout the world. But the overall objectives of humankind are basically much the same, and are not very far removed from the sentiments expressed in the old prayer of the Pueblo Indians. I have sent forth my prayers. Our children, even those who have erected their shelters at the edge of the wilderness, may their roads come in safely. May the forests and the brush stretch out their water-filled arms to shield their hearts. May their roads come in safely. May their roads all be fulfilled. May it not somehow be difficult for them when they have gone but a little way. May all the little boys and all the little girls, and those whose roads are ahead, may they have powerful hearts, strong spirits on roads reaching the dawn lake. May you grow old. May your roads be fulfilled. May you be blessed with life. May you grow old. Will you become here in the future растend of fiction. May your life, which is怎麼樣 to all the lessons you can connect them with today? May your otherario side can use for the firstẻ, by Psalm Ruben. May or May, look at C.W. mechanics to all the world's creation. May he has compassion to all his hoş-me from this, but gives a lot of beauty of life. Perhaps the central theme in the human story is the pursuit of life, liberty, and happiness. In his unrelenting efforts to achieve and to hold these things, man has bent the cunning of his brain to the mastery of the raw materials of nature. have reached their peak in the fabulous productive capacity of the 20th century. But the debt to the past is a large one and is not confined to any one social group. For example, the ancient Egyptians contributed copper, wheat, the plow, ink, writing, glass. Cotton, banks, and the postal system came from the Babylonians. Astronomy, the zodiac, and degrees of the circle were some of the gifts of the Sumerians. The Arabs invented calculus and algebra. The concept of zero was originated in India. The Greeks gave us Euclidean geometry and a rational interpretation of nature. American Indians contributed maize, potatoes, tobacco, manioc, quinine, and also independently discovered zero. And from the fertile invention of ancient China, we have inherited tea, porcelain, gunpowder, silk, rice, umbrellas, the printing press, the mauner's compass, asbestos, paper money, fingerprint identification. The list goes on and on. But it's enough to show that the belief in the mysterious superiority of a particular civilization or social group just won't stand up to analysis. There is little reason in the face of the facts for any one nation to pride itself on having a monopoly of inventiveness, of cultural standards, or even of the desire for these things. What has been achieved is to build on the discoveries of the past, to benefit from the brains of humanity, and to develop a standard of material welfare that has never been achieved before. The age-old struggle for survival has been won. Man has not only adjusted to his environment, he has mastered and subjugated it beyond the wildest dreams of his ancestors. There is only one enemy that remains. Himself. This is what happens when men master machines but cannot master themselves. These are the fruits of national jealousies, tyranny, injustice, so-called racial pride, and the refusal to believe that the weak have equal rights with the strong. It is far removed from the prayer of the simple pueblo. May the robes of our children come in safety. May their robes all be fulfilled. It is a long way from the primitive philosopher who looked on the works of the benevolent spirits and said, It is benevolence I saw in the running of the streams for the animals to quench their thirst, and the fishes to live in. The fruits of the earth teemed wherever I looked. It seems a pity, doesn't it, that the wisdom of the ages means so little that man feels himself continually threatened by his own works. It's the other side of the problem of adjustment. It's a problem of such magnitude that nothing short of international action can hope to solve it. The principle of collective security must be made to work out in practice, if man is not to destroy himself and all his works. To achieve collective security is the task of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, whose functions cover most fields of human activity. But to lead men to the knowledge and understanding of these things is the special task of UNESCO. UNESCO's program is to build international understanding by raising educational standards throughout the world, by the free interchange of national cultures, and by placing the benefits of science within the reach of all people. In the words of the Director of the Trustee Division of the United Nations and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Dr. Ralph Barnes, UNESCO is trying to build firm foundations for peace. It is recognized by UNESCO and by the United Nations and indeed by all peace-looking people that this can be done only by reaching the hearts and the minds of men with the urgent message of peace and goodwill among all men. In these anxious times, no message and no effort could be more vital to the future of all of us. For, the future of the world is at stake today. UNESCO, of course, UNESCO recognizes the weaknesses and the frailty of mankind, weaknesses and frailties which lead him down disastrous paths of conflict. But it also knows that man is capable of reason, capable of calculating wisely his self-interest, and above all, that man is basically peaceful.