The End The End This is an official New York City Air Raid Alert Drill. This is an official New York City Air Raid Alert Drill. Take shelter. Leave your loudspeakers turned on. Take shelter without delay. This is an official New York City Air Raid Alert Drill. The End This is an official New York City Air Raid Alert Drill. Take shelter. Leave your loudspeakers turned on. Take shelter without delay. This is an official New York City Air Raid Alert Drill. www.cdcb.chick bass and bass play wב Orchard Schoon niaisng For more than two ways you can receive, please leave the show of the trzy roof over there. This is an official New York City air raid alert drill. This is an official New York City alert drill. In a moment, we shall bring you additional information and instructions. My fellow New Yorkers, this is Mayor Impelitari speaking. Please remain in your shelters until the all clear sounds. If you are in a restaurant, remain seated. The air raid drill will only last a few minutes. Today, we are witnessing the first public test of the air raid alert system. I am speaking to you over every radio and television station in this city. In case of actual emergency, these communication facilities would enable civil defense officials from various control centers to keep you informed and to give you necessary instructions. The broadcasters of New York City deserve every commendation for the enthusiastic manner in which they have given freely of their time and facilities. The same wholehearted cooperation has come from the various industry groups of our city, and I am deeply grateful for this help. Director Arthur Wallander, the city's director of civil defense and all of his aides have been working night and day to prepare the municipality for any emergency. All of us pray that there may never be occasion to call on the civil defense organization. But the world being what it is today, we must be prepared. That means that each one of us must pitch in and do our share. New York City is ahead of any other place in the country in its civil defense preparations. But of course, we must depend largely on volunteers. I hope that many of you who are now in your shelter areas and are listening to my voice will here and now resolve to join the civil defense forces of your city. If a Holocaust comes, it will take each and every one of us working together to save the lives of our neighbors. So why not resolve now to join with your neighbors in civil defense? Stop in at the police or fire station nearest your home and register for civil defense to save your own life. Remember what to do when the siren sounds. Take shelter without delay. Today's test will be over in a few minutes. So remain where you are until the all clear signal sounds. Here is Director Arthur Wallander. Thank you, Mayor Impeliteri. Looking down from the marquee of the Hotel Aster just before the air raid siren sounded a few minutes ago, Times Square presented its usual picture of activity and movement. Taxi cabs, buses, and private cars rolled smartly along. Pedestrians scurried across the avenue. Sightseers and early theatergoers jostled each other as they hurried along on the sidewalk below us. Then the sirens wailed out their warning. The whole picture changed. Buses, cabs, and private cars drew up to the curb and discharged their passengers. White-helmeted air raid wardens, auxiliary police, and regular police directed to the nearest shelter areas, those who didn't seem to know just where to go. It has all taken less than ten minutes, but in these precious ten minutes, which may be all the warning time you will receive should a real attack come, we have asked complete immobilization of our city life except for certain emergency facilities. This test involves people indoors and outdoors on trains, boats, and ferries, buses, and airlines. It will serve to prove to the world that New York City is determined to protect its people in these troublesome days from whatever form of attack may come. Defense of our civil population and the maintenance of civil defense organization on a high level of efficiency is as important today as is the support of our military forces. We must preserve the lives of our civil population to ensure uninterrupted production and transportation of military equipment and supplies for the overall war effort. We need volunteers in all branches of civil defense. We are presently woefully on demand and ask those of you who have not done so to enroll without delay. This is the first and last public participation air raid test I plan to call. These tests cost a lot of money and cause a lot of inconvenience. Factories have to curtail production. Shopping comes to a halt in our stores. The whole economy of our city is interrupted, even if it is only for a short time. But I think whatever the cost has been, it has been money well expended, if only as insurance against the real thing, if it ever happens here. The knowledge gained from the public response to this test will enable us to go forward with additional planning for your safety, just as did the civil defense disaster and relief demonstration of two weeks ago. This test has shown you what should be done when the siren sounds. Those of you who have complied with instructions and are now in a sheltered area would have an excellent chance of surviving if the real atomic attack should come. And lastly, I do want to thank profoundly the press, the radio, the TV, and all other mediums of information who have so kindly cooperated with us. It has been a fine thing to work with them. Thank you very much. Mayor Impeletary and City Civil Defense Director Wallander have been talking to you from their observation posts in Times Square. Please remain in your shelters until the all-clear signal is sounded. Today's test was designed to find out where the public is fully aware of what to do in an emergency and where people have failed to cooperate. Observers have been spotted throughout the city. Reports are coming in from Bowling Green, from Broad and Wall Streets, from City Hall Park, from Grand Central Station, from Pennsylvania Station, from the Garment Area, and other points. In case of an actual emergency, civil defense officials will be able to talk to you over these facilities, direct from control centers in the five boroughs of the city. In the meantime, remember what to do whenever you hear the air raid siren. To take shelter without delay may be the means of saving your own life. The Civil Defense Organization is constantly trying to improve its effectiveness, but in the last analysis, it will be up to you, as an individual, to help yourself and help your neighbors. Visit the police station or fire station nearest your home, and volunteer for some branch of civil defense. During the course of today's drill, it has been assumed that damage has not been inflicted on the city, and no disaster relief action is to be taken by civil defense relief forces. Master Control will sound the all-clear signal, authority director of civil defense. Thank you. Master Control will sound the all-clear signal, authority firm as an individual, and a » Say, say, can you hace it on an army« of the civil defense rush? Master Control will sound the all-illary signal, authority Ihre However was no portengeories, and does not Mohan's can build people the same as individuals and guests to make good Knight says. And the cause of all women'sutil cuatro – as a manifestation. Einsteinועented Master Control will sound the all-clear signal, This has been an official New York City Civil Defense all-clear signal. The official New York City air raid alert drill is now at an end. Normal activities may be resumed. This has been an official New York City Civil Defense all-clear signal. The official New York City air raid alert drill is now at an end. Normal activities may be resumed. We now return to our regularly scheduled programs. It does not occur in 30 call rule. TheMEwei Next is a魔法 kä