This is the General Overseas Service of the BBC. Here now is a recording of an election broadcast, first heard by listeners to our home service. The Right Honourable Clement Davis, KC, leader of the Liberal Parliamentary Party, speaks on behalf of the Liberal Party. At this hour, tonight week, it will be all over. You will have voted and you will be at home reading the news. What will be the final result? Tonight, not one of us can tell. But we do know this. The result will depend on you, on what each one of you will have decided to do. What will you have done by this hour next week? Will you have voted the socialist government back to power, giving them full authority to continue their rapid march on the road of nationalisation and state ownership towards their ultimate destination, the nationalisation of all the means of production, distribution and exchange. That is their policy. If ever that aim is achieved, what becomes of individual freedom? It will cease to exist. The state will have complete and absolute control over every material thing, including even the press. That inevitably must mean control over all individuals, with power concentrated in the hands of the few. The socialist believes in that, and he is determined to lead this country, step by step, towards that destination. The danger is that one may be taken so far along that road, that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to turn back. This has been the experience of other countries, who are as free as our own. My chief complaint against this Labour government is that they have not only mismanaged affairs, and brought about the devaluation of the pound sterling at home and abroad, but by conscription and direction of labour, they have devalued personal liberty and the dignity of human personality. Are you prepared here and now to call a halt to all this, if you are? As I think and believe you are. As I think and believe you are. Then what do you propose to do? Will you vote Conservative, so as to put a Conservative government in office, in the hope that that will have... ...versed disaster? The Conservatives are undoubtedly opposed to socialism. But do they oppose it in the right way, or in the effective way? Their ideas of opposing it are limited to barinegatives, to the erection of feeble barriers to progress, which will stem the waters for a while, only to be swept aside by a tariff as the flood of public indignation rises. That has been the story of Conservative futility, both here and in other countries. If there had been no Tory misnation, if the Tories had set themselves to the task of removing social injustices, if they'd instilled in the working people a sense of security, socialism would have been unknown in this country. Socialism is unvartish. You voted in 45 as you did, I am convinced. Not because of any leaning towards socialism in the Socialist Party. You turned to them because you were fed up with the Tories. Even the popularity of Mr. Churchill was not sufficient to overcome the young popularity of his Tory colleagues. They certainly do not offer you security from socialism. The working people have no confidence in the Tories. And what is more, by their conduct in the process, the Tories have antagonized and embittered them. That is one of the worst evils that has come upon us in our time. An evil that has been inflamed by both Socialists and Tories. This class antagonism, class warfare, divides the country into two peoples, working against one another, instead of one people combining together, combining together with one great object. The betterment of all, with peace at home, no less than abroad, leading to greater production. And so building up once again, a sound economic position, which will enable us to pay our way, maintain and raise our standard of living, ensure that the welfare state becomes a reality, and safeguard full environment in a free society. Now, which party has struggled and continues to fight for full democratic freedom, fair play and equal opportunity for all? Undoubtedly, it is the Liberal Party. It is the acknowledged enemy of dictators, the enemy of privilege and the power of the few, the enemy of injustice, of poverty, of suffering and of war. It is the party of the people. If you fear socialism and dislike the Labour government, don't rush into the arms of the Tories. There's no safety there. The Conservative Party has lost all faith in itself even. It has no hope of winning your confidence. That is the reason why some are coming before you with very strange names. Conservative Liberal. National Liberal. Liberal Conservative. Liberal National Conservative. United Liberal and Conservative. And so on. They know. The name of the people will appeal to you. And so they make a base use of it. They know the name of Conservative or Tory will not appeal. And for once, they are right. Many thought that we Liberals could not put up enough candidates to form a government. Our opponents said we were weak and didn't count. That was the only line of attack that was left of them. They didn't criticize our policy or even our intentions. They want you to believe that you can get the thing that you really want, which is through liberalism, by voting for them. They want you to believe that a vote for a liberalism is a vote wasted. Well, let's go into this. Here we have, for the first time since 29, three parties fighting on roughly equal terms. Their recent poll showed that 30 million people would prefer a Liberal government to any other. People don't want extremes. The mood of the country demands a government which will ensure social and industrial progress. Fair share, fair play and justice for each individual. Real equality of opportunity. A reduction in the cost of living and a home. A comfortable home for every family. Now let us look for a moment how you can get all those things. To those of you who are inclined to support the Conservative Party to get the Socialists out, I want to put this to you. Liberal candidates have already attracted the support of hundreds of thousands of people who voted Labour last time, but who will never vote Tory. A Liberal candidate has given them the opportunity that they want. To those of you who are frightened of another Conservative government, I ask you to consider how you can use your vote most effectively. Well, give your vote to the Liberal, and so make sure to keep the Tory out. To the Tory inclined, I ask, do you want Labour? Or Liberal? Or Liberal? To the Labour inclined, I ask, do you want Tory? Or Liberal? This is your problem. The only way to avoid splitting the vote is to vote Liberal. The British mode of life, as we know it and cherish it, is a Liberal mode of life. The freedoms and independence we enjoy today have been won for us by the Liberals, and won against the fierce opposition of the Tories. We fought the Tories to win those freedoms. We fight the Socialists to maintain them. Have we won the battle here for human freedoms? The Liberal fought to make those freedoms a reality. We worked for the redistribution of wealth, to abolish poverty and social injustice, with the handicaps and the suffering that they inflicted on millions of our people, men, women and children of the land. The really progressive acts which have been passed by this Socialist Government in these last four years, are the result of Liberal work, Liberal thought and constant public education. The working people know that they and their welfare have always been the anxious concern of our party. We have worked harder and more than anybody for better housing, better schools, happier home life and better health. So today, in all these matters, we are still ahead. We want ownership for all. We want the working people to have a fair share of the profits of their industry. And what is more, we have the plan ready. That is far better than becoming a state employee. The Liberal has again always been the friend of the trade unionists. The acts of parliament which formed the charter of trade union rights were put there by Liberal governments working in conjunction with trade union leaders. The people is, and has been, the friend of the farmer, and protected him when the Tory was only the friend of the land owner. Today, the most progressive program for the encouragement of agriculture, and the production of more food in this country, is the Liberal program. It provides for steady markets and prices, more capital expenditure, so as to give better housing, and bring more land under cultivation. The Liberal has also been the friend of the agricultural worker, anxious that he should have the chance to become a farmer himself. We started, and today encourage, small holdings, better rural conditions, running water and electric light in every country home. It is the Liberal who again is on the side of the small man. We hate monopolies. In our program, we demand an act that will make an end of monopolies, and give the small shopkeeper, and retailer, and the small factories, the chance to carry on their trade and their business. It is the Liberal who wants to help the pension by linking the pensions and allowances with the cost of living. Our Liberal women have produced a program for women which is far better and way ahead of anything produced by the other parties. We believe in equal pay, and we intend to introduce it immediately into government employment. We believe in the great partnership of women and men. We will give the Scottish and the Welsh people the right to manage their own affairs by setting up Scottish and Welsh parliaments to deal with matters of particular concern to Scotland and Wales. We believe in the Welsh and Welsh and Welsh, respectively. But it is in the economic field that the Liberals can do the most effective work today. Liberal administration enabled Britain to lead the world. Now, we are living beyond our means, and we would be in dire straits, but for the generous help from America and our sister nations of the Commonwealth. We must put our house in order. We must put our house in order. And cut down government spending and cut drastically. The government must practice thrift as well as preach it. Controls not imposed by the need for fair shares or by scarcity must go. There must be no waste. Restrictive practices on either side of industry must also go. Taxation must be reformed and the burden lessened. We want incentives and encouragement for free enterprise. We would reward hard work and good management. We don't believe in restrictions and barriers either at home or abroad. Restriction and control are inherent in the socialist policy and in the Tory policy. Have you considered how this old country built up its greatness? How it raised its population to some 50 million? How it established the mighty Commonwealth in the course of the last 150 years? How it was able to fight and win two world wars, in each of which it played not only a noble and tremendous but a decisive part? How it created the welfare state, abolished social injustices, raised the standard of life, provided for the weak and feeble from birth to old age, and created an educational system second to none. Why is it that this country has been able to leave the world for so long? It is entirely due to the application of liberal principles, to freedom and that true freedom which comes with economic justice and radical social reform. To the country's readiness to trade with any part of the world, to the liberal policy of buying and selling everywhere. And, ah, don't forget, that through our tolerance and understanding we created friendships, which have stood us so well in time of peril. That's the liberal outlook on life. It is badly needed today throughout the whole world. Had liberalism prevailed, rather than the Kaiser in Germany in 1914, that war would not have broken out. Had liberalism prevailed in Germany and Italy instead of Hitler and Mussolini, the war of 39 would not have broken out. The very fear that we all have in our hearts today, lest there should be a third world war, is primarily due to the fact that liberalism has been stamped out or never existed in those unhappy countries now under the yoke of Soviet despotism, which stretches from the gates of old Vienna to the shores of the China seas. This liberal Britain has not only been the home and cradle of liberty, but the guardian of those who fought to win it for themselves. That is why we liberals have come forward. Liberalism has triumphed in the past and will triumph again. So, instead of taking either the socialist road or the Tory road, we offer you a broad highway of liberalism, which will restore this whole country to its proud place on a sound economic footing, making it once more the moral and spiritual leader of a distressed and a distraught world. You want a liberal government? This time, you can have it. Use the democratic right to voting and vote liberal. Let me add this. Use your vote as if you knew it was the decisive casting vote. The tide of liberalism is rising and rising everywhere. Take it at the flood, and then this grand old country will ride triumphant to peace, progress and prosperity. So, on this day week, I hope and expect at this hour, when you have returned home, you will say, No, I didn't vote Tory. I didn't vote socialist. I voted liberal. And so we shall have a strong liberal government of the people for all the people. Good night. Good night. That was a recording of the Right Honourable Clement Davis' election broadcast, which was first heard in the BBC's home service. This talk will be broadcast again in the general overseas service at 0730 Greenwich Mean Time and 1645 Greenwich Mean Time today.