From the council chambers in City Hall, WNYC brings you the proceedings of the Mayor's Annual Personal Christmas Party for underprivileged children. Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz is on hand to represent Mayor Impelitari, as is Mrs. Impelitari, and our guest of honor and featured performer is none other than Santa Claus himself. Also, the Department of Sanitation Band is here, directed by John Celebre. Here now is our Master of Ceremonies, Colonel Edward Rickett. Children, we just got the word, here comes Santa Claus, the Deputy Mayor, and Mrs. Impelitari right now. Here they are. Thank you. Boys and girls, isn't this wonderful to have Santa Claus come right in on this wonderful party that Mayor Impelitari is holding down here at City Hall for all of you children from all of our hospitals? And what do you think of that? Just as Santa came to the top of the stairs, he ran into Mrs. Impelitari, and he brought her in with him. Isn't that wonderful? That's grand. Now, Santa, it must have been pretty cold up there at the North Pole. Wasn't it? It was terrible up there today. I'm so cold now, I don't think I'm ever going to get warm. Oh, my, my. The only thing that'll make me warm is if the children's warm hearts will make me warm. Oh, I'm sure you'll find that'll happen now. You must have had quite a trip. Tell us something. Well, we had a pretty bad time coming down from the North Pole. The first stop we made was in the Bronx. Oh. And it was very cold in the Bronx, but then when we got across the river, it was a little warmer. And then when I went by Gracie Mansion, I wanted to see Mayor Impelitari and say hello to him. And I was horribly sorry to find out he was a sick man and that he was away and was away from the city. But I know that all of us up and sitting here and all the people of the city of New York are going to pray that he gets back here to us here in the city. But I was lucky enough to find his lovely, very, very lovely wife. Very, very happy. Had her come down here with me to be with us today. And it's very, very wonderful for us to have her with us here because there is nobody in the whole city that more exemplifies into our mind the spirit of Christmas. Oh, that's grand. That's wonderful. And I know all the children are very happy about that, too. But tell me, did the reindeers eat much on the way down? Were they hungry? Well, the reindeer ate an awful lot. But, you know, we were worried about some of the reindeer maybe being sick. And we said to one of the reindeer, you know, our reindeer all talk. We said, what are you going to do, Donner, if you get sick? And Donner said, he turned to Blitzen and said, Blitzen, who took care of you last year when you were sick down in New York City? And who do you think it was? I don't know. You tell me. I'm a wonderful commissioner of hospitals, the head of all the hospitals here. And I understand the wonderful, all these wonderful children here today. Our own Dr. Kogel. Our own Dr. Marcus Kogel. Oh, yes. He's a wonderful, wonderful man. Wonderful man. And you didn't expect this wonderful band from the sanitation department, did you? It never entered my mind, though. They were here last year with John Celebré leading them. And I see him right here again. There he is. There he is. There's Colonel Edward Rickett here again this year. Oh, he does a wonderful job here. It's wonderful. And now I think Mrs. Impalateri, who met you coming up, would like to say something to the children and just greet them. Thank you. I know you're all going to have a very happy Christmas. I see you all looking very nice and very happy. I'm sure you've been very good all year. And now here at City Hall, you have your little paper bags. And we're going to have something to put in. You know that? And I'm glad that I was here today. I'm sorry my husband isn't here. But in a minute or two, I think Santa Claus is going to come to you. And may you all have a happy Christmas. And you know, you know that Santa Claus brings a lot of nice people to these parties. And we have over here the acting mayor, the president of the city council, Mr. Rudy Holley. Will you come over and say a word to the children? And Mrs. Holley is with him too. And here comes the city council president over to the microphones, shakes hands with Mrs. Impelitari, as does Mrs. Holley, and the city council president. Hello, everybody. I want to wish you a very, very Merry Christmas at this wonderful party that our mayor and Mrs. Impelitari are giving you. I know you'll all have fun, and we're just here to have a little bit with you. God bless you. I'll just say Merry Christmas to all these wonderful children. Now, girls and boys, I'm going to let Santa Claus take over and you're going to have a wonderful party from now on. Santa? Now, what are the children going to do about getting the presents I brought for them? How do they go now, Colonel Rickett? If all the boys will form a line on that side, the girls form a line on this side. And here come the kids. They're stampeding up here, practically, to get their presents. The presents themselves are lined up on the city council president's desk. They're all decked out in red and white and green, the Christmas colors. The kids themselves have been here, oh, about two hours, and each one has been provided with a lunchbox, a hat, a noisemaker, and a huge Christmas shopping bag. They've been very patient listening to the music by John Celebrity and the sanitation department band. They've also been entertaining themselves. And just a while ago, the deputy mayor did some dancing with one of the little girls, and she looked very spry at it, as did the deputy mayor, Mr. Horowitz. The gifts are going to be given out now by Santa Claus, and Santa Claus this year, as every year at the mayor's personal party for the underprivileged kids, is Jim Sauter, deputy commissioner of commerce. Well, here come the little girls on the right side and the little boys on the left side. The presents are being given by Mrs. Impeletere, looking rather smart in a dark dress. I suppose we men are rather ill at ease in describing women's dresses. We can just say it does look chic. On the left, the deputy mayor is taking care of the boys' needs with presents for them. And City Council President Halley is there smoking his pipe at this rather festive occasion. The kids themselves, each one, is to receive a present. After that, they're going to get a police escort with their buses back to the various hospitals to which they're going. They've come from the Harlem Hospital, the Marsanya Hospital, the Cumberland Hospital, the Queens General Hospital, as well as the Staten Island Visiting Nurses Establishment. Well, proceedings here are just about at an end. From the council chambers in City Hall, the city station has brought you a portion of the festivities of the mayor's annual personal Christmas party for underprivileged children. Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz and Mrs. Impeletere represented the mayor, and our guest of honor was none other than the gentleman in the red and white suit, the whiskers, the huge stomach, and the bag of toys. We're referring to old St. Nick, known as Santa Claus. That's about all. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.