Thank you. Thank you. Good evening, neighbors. This is the second time that we have asked to come into your homes and talk to you from City Hall about a problem of city government. Tonight, we're going to talk about children. Everyone is interested in children. Every department in this city, every agency, at some time has to do with children. We have a lot of children in our city. Two million, to be exact. In fact, 150,000 children were born in this city last year. We've got almost 900,000 children in schools. Look around you today. Whether it's warm, you see them in the parks. The park department won't be here tonight, but the park department does a whole lot for children. And you take even the Board of Transportation. That has a great deal to do for children in the city. But out of the two million, we have conditions that deal with children that are of a special nature. And it is the gentlemen who represent the departments and agencies that deal with that specific type of child that I have invited here tonight to sit down with me and to talk among ourselves so that you can understand what your city government is trying to accomplish with children that need special care. And over here on my right is the commissioner of welfare, Raymond M. Hilliard, Mr. Hilliard. Next to him is from the Department of Education is a very famous man, Mark A. McCluskey. To my left here is the police commissioner, William P. O'Brien. And over here on the end is Judge Nathaniel Kaplan, the chairman of the Youth Bureau and the judge of the Domestic Relations Court. Now those gentlemen deal with a certain type of child. As you well understand, the natural guardians of a child are the parents. There are times when through an act of God or through some failure on the part of the parents, the parents fail the children. When that happens, something has to be done by the community. The community is represented by its government and those gentlemen are the men that carry the major load where children need special care. Now, it's quite true that we could start off the night talking about the children in schools. But there are five or six long, long years that a child in trouble has to live before it gets to school. And in that period, the Department of Welfare has the responsibility. Now, Commissioner Hilliard, would you tell the folks what types of children you have to deal with and what you do for them? Well, General, first of all, there are all types, kinds, colors, creeds of children. Actually, there are 150,000 or more of them in the city of New York who are being cared for by the Department of Welfare. We believe this, General, in the first place, that it's the best arrangement possible to keep a child in his own home with his own parents. And that's why we have and administer an aid-to-dependent children program which enables 100,000 youngsters to stay in their own homes. We don't believe that homes should be broken up or children removed for reasons of poverty alone. Commissioner, could I clear that up? You have, from time to time, children who are known as neglected children and children who are known as juvenile delinquents. Now, do all of the children that you have to deal with come within those classifications? No, General, because this program of keeping the children in their own homes prevents them ever from becoming neglected or dependent children. Now, there are, in addition to the 150,000 that are remaining in their own homes with their parents or with a close relative, about 16,000 who have no homes of their own and who have to be cared for either in foster homes or in institutions or in some other suitable arrangement at the expense of the city. Tell us about that foster home. What is that? Well, a foster home is a home as near to the child's normal and natural home as we can find. Usually, one of the great federations, either the Protestant or the Jewish or the Catholic group, will seek and find some willing husband and wife with a love for children who are willing to take a child or children into their own homes. Have you many of them? 16,000, General, are in foster care, as we call it at this time. What, General, is the bill for that the Department of Welfare pays? Well, we pay about $50 or $55 a month in our own direct placement program, and we pay varying amounts to the private agencies, but in no case does the city pay the full cost of the care of a child who is in the care of a private agency. The private agency itself makes a great contribution in the way of additional services and additional expenditures. Well, you do have to do with neglected children, don't you? Yes. What is a neglected child from the viewpoint of the law? Well, it may be a child, General, who suddenly finds himself without parents by reason of death. Now, those are probably a minority of cases. It may be a child of a broken home where the mother has gone someplace. It may be an abandoned child. Many children are abandoned right at birth, as you probably know. Yeah. And other cases, more serious cases, the ones that Judge Kaplan can tell us about, involve cases that have to be removed from their parents because of the unsuitability of the home, the unsuitability of the parents. That is, that where the parents are endangering the morals of the physical well-being of the children, the court has to take action. That's correct. To protect the child. That would be a neglected child, wouldn't it? That's right. Well, now, where does the juvenile delinquent come in? Well, the delinquent children, General, are fortunately a minority. In the course of a year, we won't have more than, what, a thousand, probably Judge Kaplan, something like that? Oh, I guess more than that. More than that, but I mean in care as delinquent children. Oh, no more than that, in care. But, for them, we have two institutions that are run by Youth House, a private corporation. They have an establishment on 12th Street for boys. Now, that's the one that the workmen's circle has permitted us to use until we get a new building, isn't it? That's correct, and they were most generous, General. Weren't they? Very good. They allowed us two years to use that building to give us a chance to put up a building for them. That's right. The last time you were down here with the committee on that, there was some discussion whether the building should be for the neglected children or for the juvenile delinquents. Now, did you resolve that difficulty yet? Yes, General, we did. We resolved it by determining that the greatest urgency was for delinquent children. I see. That we needed something for both that was true, but that we should plan immediately for delinquent and then plan in the not-too-distant future for the dependent neglected children. Someday, incidentally, General, I wish that all of us here could go up and take a look at the Children's Center, where we take care of about 350 neglected and dependent children. That is on a temporary basis? On a temporary basis. You place them in foster homes or you send them somewhere else so they get big and go out, something like that? Usually, we place them as quickly as possible. Now, because of the unavailability of enough foster homes, particularly for Negro children, and I would like to urge that everything be done to secure foster homes for those children, some of the kids stayed too long. That's a bad situation. It is. And the difficulty of getting foster homes for them is the big problem. That is the whole problem, General. We have about 530-some children right now who are awaiting placement. Well, by and large, Ray, would you say that the cost of your department and the departments generally in dealing with children, with housing of them, care of them, is a big bill? Yes, General. To care for the children themselves costs about $4 million every month. Every month? When you add to that the cost of the family that is taking care of the children, it will run to roughly one-half of our total budget, one-half of $193 million, or about $96.5 million per year. Now, is it your experience, and you've had a lot of it, that the home, a good home, is a good thing for the children? The best thing in the world. There just isn't any substitute for that for children. Nothing. And all our efforts, General, where we can't have a real, true home, are to find as close an approximation or substitute for it as we can. Rather than putting them into an institution. Yeah. And even when it's an institution, we try to have that institution come as close to a natural home as we can. Well, there it is, of course, the home. A good home is the great thing for children. I think we all should keep that well in our minds. The responsibility that rests with a good home for children is easier met than it is when those who are not at the same bloodline try to take care of them, isn't it? That's true. And there's another interesting thing, General. To keep a child in his own home with his parents, even if we have to spend money for it, costs us much less than to take care of that child in a foster home or in an institution or in any other type of arrangement that we have. It's so much better to have the child in the home. That, strangely enough, was never realized fully until, I never realized it fully until the late Al Smith made that an issue here in the state. He said, leave the child in the home. Even if the father's dead, the mother said, leave the child in the home and pay for it. Don't take the child away and put it into an institution. How right that is, huh? Nothing illustrates it, General, the way the figures do. When New York, 50 years ago, was half its present size, it had as many children in foster care as it has today, about 16,000. Now, with a double population, we have the same numbers we had 50 years ago, and I think that's all to the good because the kids are staying at home. That's right. The development of the home is the natural guardianship of the children. Right. Well, now, let us get into the broader field and take a look at what happens to the child when it goes to school. Mark McCluskey spent quite a few years since you were a boy over on 11th Avenue, isn't it? That's right. And then you went to Princeton and you came back and you never left. Your first love. That's right. And just taking an interest in how to handle the children of a crowded community. Isn't that true? That's true. Now, you have been all these years in the Department of Education, stepping up from one position to another until at last you're the director of the entire programming for children. Isn't that so? That's right. Can you tell the neighbors who are listening in what it is that the Department of Education, under your guidance, is doing for children? Well, remember, General, I run the—you don't got a part of the Board of Education. You don't got to do the things that I run. I handle what happens after three, and I happen—run what happens in the summertime. Yeah. Now, today—or tomorrow, rather, as the kids leave school, they're going to take a piece of paper with them, and that piece of paper is going to say where the nearest playground is for those kids to go to. Well, that's the park department playground. No, that's part of the park. Bob Moses' parks will be wide open for all these kids. But at the same time, every schoolyard in the city of New York will be open this summer. Oh. And in addition to that— Hold on a minute, Nat. Do you remember 15 years ago when we were fighting to get the schoolyards open? Right, General. There was a big argument against it. Tell us more about that, will you? Well, yeah. Mark— Well, now, not only will every schoolyard be open, General, but in 386—that's a lot of schools. That's more schools than there are in almost any other city in the United States. Yeah. Every one of them will have people in there to take care of these kids. Guidance. That's right, and what we've said to the parents is this. You take those kids by the hand, and there's a school near enough to where you live. If you're a parent or a grandparent, take your grandchildren or take your children over and say hello to the person in charge. And there'll be a staff of people there. And they'll do a lot of interesting things with those kids this summer. They'll sing with them and dance with them, and they'll work with clay, and they'll do things with wood, and they'll play baseball. Well, you've been here on the steps in front of this place when I brought my big league of little men out here. Yeah. Kids under five foot tall. And we'll have every swimming pool in the city of New York that the Board of Education has. It'll be open this summer. And every athletic field will be open seven days a week until the sun goes down for kids that want to play baseball. And we'll have 41 schools that'll be open this summer where kids will dance. Now, Bob Moses will run the big dances, you know, on the mall in Central Park. But we'll have the neighborhood dances, 41 of them, 50 of them every week. There'll be kids dancing where their parents can look at them while they dance and where the neighbors and friends can see them. Real neighborhood business. Now, that's our summer. Bob doesn't make them dance, does he? He just sets up the place for them to dance. Well, yeah, but that's a big mask. Yeah, no, the neighbors here want to know exactly what. Yeah, but we get back to the neighbors. Now, I'm telling all the neighbors here, General, that what I want them to do, we're partners with them. I want them to take their kids over and say, hello, I'm Mrs. Smith. And you're Mrs. Mr. Watt? Well, I'm the head of this playground here. And we're going to take care of your kids this summer. We're in partnership with the parents of the city of New York. Citywide, we cover the whole city in the summertime. And I want to tell you one other thing about it, General, is that we've stepped up that program to double what it was five years ago. Now, be kind to me later on when you give me some time, I want to tell you what we do in the winter. But that's all I want to say for the moment. Well, maybe we should know now what you do in the winter. That's an important thing. Well, it's a curious idea. You know, we light up the schools. The lighted schoolhouse, that's our phrase. That's a slogan. We think it's just as important to light the school up at night as it is to have it open in the daytime. Yeah. Well, next winter, when these kids go out, they will come first in the afternoons. Now, six years ago, we had 140 schools open in the afternoon. Now, we got 244 will be open next fall. We've stepped that program up. A half a million dollars more is going into it now than went into it six years ago. Now, that's all right, isn't it? Well, there's more coming into it. We'll hear about in a few minutes. Now, we get over to the evening. And there, why do you know that in Queens alone, there are 500 teams play basketball every week. Basketball teams and all their friends, their fathers and friends and all the rest of them. There are all kinds of leagues come in there. But we'll have 269 schools open, lighted up every night in the week for kids to come in and older people to come in and use them in a whole variety of ways. We won't have a chance to go into all of that now. No. But they dance. They play games. They have game rooms. They work in clay. They work in wood. It's one of the most interesting and one of the best programs in this nation. Well, Mark, isn't it a fact that what we've been trying to do is to find a place for all the children that need a place in which to play and without impressing ourselves too heavily on them, without forcing them to do this or that, the program would be to guide them along the lines of their own desires and keeping watch to see that they don't get out alive. I hit it on the nose because if you start the regiment, in general, let's stay away and mark. That wouldn't come. It's a light hand you put on it. That's right. Yeah. Now let's come around to Bill O'Brien, the police commissioner. Bill, years ago when we were rookie cops, the children on the street weren't always too friendly with the cop in post, were they? That's right, General. They'd run away from the cop in post, cheese at the cop. When they saw the cop, they regarded him as an enemy, didn't they? They certainly did. Well now, back around 1932, the police department began to develop a plan that would educate the children to look upon the policeman as a friend. Isn't that so? That's true. And that has worked out to an organization within the police department that's known as PAL, the Police Athletic League. That's right, General. Can you tell us how far that has been developed? Well, the PAL, as you know, is the outgrowth of our juvenile aid bureau. Yeah. When we found that one of the principal causes of juvenile delinquency was lack of proper playing fields and proper ways to spend their time, we felt that the PAL would be the proper thing to establish to give children things to do and keep them out of trouble. Well, now what programs do you have? Well, right now we'll start the same as Mark did in the summertime. We have a very extensive program in the summertime. In addition to the hundred or more centers that are in operation during the wintertime and with the help of Nat Kaplan with his $80,000 this year, we were able to open up. Come on, Nat. You're getting credit for it. I got it for you, right? Right. It happens to me all the time. Go ahead. Well, Matt goes around telling us he gave it to us. Thanks, General, to you too. But with that help, we were able to open this year 75 play streets. Now, these play streets, it's just not a matter of opening up a street. Those streets are supervised by trained supervisors, men from college. As a matter of fact, we have some men who have graduated from these colleges and education along athletic lines. Are they all policemen? No, we have paid supervisors, and they're experts in their field. You have gone into the point of having this work done by professional people, as far as you can, who are not policemen. Oh, they have baccalaureate degrees, and it's quite an art today, General. Yeah, I see. Well, of course, handling children in large numbers, especially troublesome children, is a big job. Now, in addition to that, before this season is over, before the summer season is over, we will have had 600,000 children taken to ball games. Yeah. And we don't just give them a ticket and send them to a ball game. We get them there and supervise them at the game and get them home again. How about camps? We have a Fox Slayer camp up in the Adirondacks. It's one of the finest camps in the state. A little camp, yeah. And it doesn't cost a child a five-cent piece. Do you have any children during the summer up there? We expect this year to have over 600 children. That's good. For three-week stay. Taken from the crowded neighborhoods, of course. Yes, and no child is allowed to go there if their circumstances are such that they would have been able to pay. It's just... It's just poor children. Chiefly for children that couldn't otherwise go. That's right. Well, that's only right. That's all right. What else have they been doing, Bill, in the PAL? Oh, it's... They have games. It's the most extensive program. Winter and summer, they have games. Now, you see... The winter program is big, isn't it? The winter program is a tremendous program. Tell the people about that. Well, we have over 100 centers. We have the large centers, as you know, the Buzzy Center and the Michio Center. They're tremendous large centers. How are they financed? Well, they are financed, some of the larger ones, with the help, again, of our youth board. Yeah. And all of our activities, I might say, with the exception of that $80,000 that we get from that, is donated by the people of this city. Well, you've spent almost $2 million last year, didn't you? No. How much? No, we spent close to $1 million. A million. You were looking for $2 million, and you got $1 million. Well, all right. I'm just wondering how much you got. We're looking for $1 million this year, and I hope that we get it. We're up around $500,000 right now, and I hope that we get the other half million. Yeah. But we like it that way, General. I know that the people of the city like it that way, because then they feel that they have a stake in the youth of our city. They feel that they're doing something individually, as well as collectively, to ensure the safety and the welfare of the children of this city. And we hope it will always be that way, because we have a very generous crowd of people in the city of New York, as you well know. And they've contributed well to our campaign, and I'm sure they always will do it. Well, now, thanks, Bill. Neighbors, 15 years ago, over in Brooklyn, when I was a city magistrate, we tried to get at the children who got into trouble. We tried to save them. We tried to save them from fingerprint records. We tried to save them by supervision, by a direct contact between the court and the home, by getting as far as possible. The religious denomination to which the child belongs interested in the child, and set up a kind of Big Brother movement to watch them, to help the court. And it worked out remarkably well, and is going strong today. Now, during those days, one of the men that I came in contact with, I knew him long before, but he was very interested in the Jewish Board of Guardians at the time. And that was a young fellow named Nat Kaplan. Nat Kaplan has been, for four years, the secretary to the Board of Education, and now he is an ornament to the Children's Court, Judge Kaplan. But, one of his duties before he went on the bench, which he is still doing, is chairman of the Youth Bureau. Nat, will you tell us about that, please? General, your interest in the kids of this city goes back before 15 years. It was in 1932 when you became a magistrate. Shortly after that, in the Adolescent Court. Now, tell us about the Youth Bureau now. Let's get down to that. Well, the Youth Bureau was created by you. Okay. Consists of 13... Tell us about that, even if that's so. 13 members, General. Seven of them, commissioners, who deal with the children of the city in some form or other. Six lay members. Now, this board is created to study delinquency and study methods of preventing it. Yeah. And we got this staff. I think it's one of the best in the country. They are absolutely tops. The requirements for membership... Now, look, we haven't much time, and I want the people to get this story. There are neighborhoods where you have children that are getting into trouble. We have selected... We probably picked out 11 of those areas. And forming little gangs. Right. Now, you want to stop gangs, don't you? Oh, no. General, that's a mistaken notion. What? You can never stop a gang. You don't want to... What do you do? General, gangs were here when you were a kid, and they'll be here long after we get dead. What we want to do is channel those gangs into social practices, not antisocial. Well, what you mean is where you find them ganging up. You just take some action that will lead them in the right way. Right. Have you done it? We've started a program we think is going to be the best in this country. When is it going to start? It's on the way now. What is it going to be? Well, we're going into every gang with a trained worker, so that we direct these gangs into the proper channels. I don't like the word gang, then. Whatever you call it. They come to me. They're clubs. I call them something else. We call them groups. Groups. We call them a group. Don't call them gangs. And anyhow, General, what we found from our experiments so far is that if you put a trained worker with one gang and you succeed in influencing that gang, if the surrounding gangs haven't got a worker, they're going to challenge this gang that has a worker. And as a result, the last phase of our program, we're putting one in each gang. Well, look. Again, the time is running out. Have you isolated them? Do you know where they are? Oh, yes. And no question about them. Bill O'Brien knows the name of every one of them. We know them. Now, have you arrangements to place a social worker with each one? Right. When will it start? It's on the way now. You approved it last Thursday. Yeah, but when will it get going? Tomorrow. We're working on it already. We have some of them in our schools now. Twenty-seven already. We have 600,000 of them. And we have a few. Right. We have a few that are working on. We're financing. You see, we gave Mark $600,000. We believe, as you do, that good recreation is a preventative of delinquency. But it's not the only one. It's one of them. I'd like to tell you more about. This program of ours, not only we pick up the kids at the earliest possible moment, and that's the classroom. We've gone into these 11 areas, and we have set up units so that the teacher has available this group to pick up the kids at the earliest moment. Then we've contracted for treatment of kids. You know, you get a kid that's disturbed. I want to say to you, though, judges, that if you stop any piece of this, General, then your whole chart of delinquency will go right out through the ceiling. Yeah, well, let me ask you one question. Now, we've talked about what you've all been doing. Have you honestly figures to show that you have prevented delinquency? Have you shown that? Oh, yeah, sure. I'll figure short. It's the untruthful part of fiction. You can't do that. But I want to tell you that if you stop any of this thing, if you don't really keep pace with it, then you're charged for delinquency. Then you'll have an armful, Commissioner O'Brien, and you, in the court, will have an armful of work to do, too. You'll have an armload to carry. Now, we're working with every agency, public and private, in this youth board, General. Yeah. And we have a program we think is going to show results. We'll be able to evaluate. A year from now, we'll give you a better idea of what we've done. I'd like to get a good picture of that now. It's really experimental. We don't know the answer to delinquency. We're trying to find our way. We're groping. We are getting cooperation. But, General, I think we need more cooperation, especially in this recreation field. I'd like to see a study made to see if we can't get a recreation commission, if necessary. Oh, listen. Will you give me a chance to do the job that I got to get done with that before you begin coordinating this? All right. We're going to be up to your PAL, too. For years to get this thing done. I'm all for your studies, Judge. But give us a chance, because I think we really can solve this problem if we make a seamless web that no kid falls out of. Well, what I'd like to see is a study made to see if we can't get the maximum forever of the dollar we spend. Come to Gracie Manson, talk to me about it sometime. General, I'm coming up one morning to Gracie Manson. I've got some other ideas. Remember the time you come, Judge. Don't come at six o'clock in the morning, for goodness sake. I see that a fella did get up there at six o'clock in the morning. If you come up at six o'clock in the morning, you'll wake the mayor up and he needs his rest. Yeah, now look, boys, there's something to be said for the man that wakes you up. There are so many that put you to sleep. Well, I think, neighbors, that's all for tonight. Again, the children are the hope of tomorrow. So, what we're trying to do is to make it possible that where any grown-up person fails the child, that the community will step in. Our objective is we must not lose a single child. They must all grow up to be the great men and women of tomorrow. The home, the playground, good housing, well-paid jobs, religion, and everything that the government can do to assure the child of today a happier and a healthier tomorrow. That's the objective. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for letting us into your home. Good night. God bless you. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night.