Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, how can we reduce nighttime accidents? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the hazards of driving at night and the means to greater safety. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are H.R. Gross, United States Representative in Congress from the State of Iowa, Franklin Kreml, Director of the Traffic Institute at Northwestern University, and A.R. Lauer, Professor of Psychology and Director of the Iowa State College Driving Laboratory. Now, Lauer, tell us, what is this nighttime traffic problem? How would you describe it? Well, fundamentally, uh, Mack, it resolves itself to this. Uh, it has been stated on fairly sound authority that about four cars out of, three cars out of four are in the garage at night. And we have some, uh, indications, uh, from various studies that there are about four times as many automobile accidents at night. Now, this would include, of course, the miles of driving, as there are in daylight. Now, we have been searching about for solutions to this problem for a number of years. And, uh, we just have to reduce these night accidents. In other words, you're saying that you have more accidents at night in spite of the fact that you have, uh, about a three-fourths of the cars in the garage. That's right. For one reason or another, which we hope to discuss here today, the night accidents are far out of proportion to the mileage driven and the hazards taken since, uh, the congestion is less great, et cetera. Criminal? With about a fourth of the accidents, in other words, we have about half of the fatalities and serious personal injuries. Something like that. The, uh, speaking to the original question, however, I'd like to say, uh, McBurney, that the nighttime traffic problem is one of accidents rather than congestion or parking as contrasted with the daytime problem. When we speak to the average citizen of the traffic problem, he thinks in terms of congestion, accidents, uh, parking, absence of terminal facilities, and so on. But, uh, the problem narrows down markedly at night. It is, uh, almost completely a problem of accidents. And where do these accidents take place, Kreml? In the metropolitan areas, largely? Uh, they take place in both the metropolitan and rural areas. Uh, however, the situation in recent years, particularly since the conclusion of World War II, has been worsening in the rural areas, as have all accidents for that matter. Uh, and the situation has been improving markedly in the cities or in the metropolitan areas. Particularly speeds going up in the rural areas at night, uh, makes it imperative that visibility be, uh, shortened in some way. Either people are going to have to have much better eyes or they're going to have more visible objects to see and indicators, signs, and so on, to direct them along the highway. Now, I know you're interested in this, uh, problem, uh, uh, Congressman, and have proposed a bill which we'll discuss a little later. But tell us first what types of accidents are, are involved at, at night. Well, the type of, uh, accident to which my, uh, bill is directed involves a collision between, uh, automobiles and unlighted railroad cars. And my bill is simply an effort to reduce the slaughter of human lives at railroad grade crossings, particularly in the rural areas. Is that a serious problem? Uh, I think it is. Uh, railroad cars become doubly deadly at night. In four years from 1948 through 1951, the latest period for which official figures are available, there were 3,691 grade crossing accidents in the United States, whereby automobiles collided with the sides of railroad trains. Of these 3,691 accidents, 2,750 or more than two-thirds occurred at night, despite less traffic than during the day. The night accidents resulted in 622 deaths compared with 323 deaths in the daytime. Injuries at night total 3,903 compared with 1,140 in the daytime, or nearly three for one. Uh, this is an example of the peculiar type of accident that we get at night. That is, peculiar to nighttime driving conditions. Uh, for example, uh, we have an experience here not, uh, too long ago, in which a driver of a passenger car was following a truck on a rural highway at night. He'd been following him for several miles. The, uh, truck was driving at a, uh, reasonable speed, uh, finally decided to pull off to the side of the road onto the shoulder for the purpose of making some adjustment on the truck. Uh, the driver of the passenger car followed him off onto the shoulder with undiminished speed when the truck stopped ran into the back of them. Now, why would he do that? Well, this is, this is the sort of thing, first of all, that couldn't happen in the daytime. Uh, uh, some sort of, uh, fatigue, hypnosis combination about which, uh, Lauer ought to speak rather than an eye. Well, first, I might, I'd like to say a word about Congressman Gross, uh, Bill. This is pointed up by the fact that these railway trains are usually dark red, or they tend to be of a darker color. And red tends to get darker at night because of a certain psychological, uh, law, whereas blue tends to get brighter, or other colors could be used. But, uh, even the reflectorization is very essential there at night. Now, uh, uh, one thing I was going to say, this highway, uh, you were mentioning factors a moment ago, seems to be one of the factors. And speed, of course, excessive speed by a certain group of youngsters, which, uh, probably between the, not probably, because we have actually got checks on this during the last year. Between the ages of 20 and 24, we found that there were about 10% who were grossly exceeding any safe speed limit. We clocked one boy at night driving, uh, 92 miles an hour. Another one was driving 66 miles an hour with his lights off at night. Uh, Mr. Lauer, I'd like to point up what I am trying to do with this bill. Uh, I have before me the Des Moines, Iowa Tribune, on the date of January 5, 1952, carrying the story of, uh, two youths and two teenage girls who were killed when their auto crashed into the site of a Great Western freight train in a heavy fog 19 miles east and a mile south of Waverly, Iowa. Uh, I know, uh, uh, friends of these youngsters. Uh, they tell me that they were driving at a moderate rate of speed. True, they were, they were driving in a fog. But, uh, I, I think that had this train carried, uh, uh, reflective material, that this accident might well have been avoided. By reflective material, you mean, uh, what? Luminous or reflective material of one type or another, paint or, uh, any sort of reflective material, I should think of, uh, white or orange color, although my bill doesn't provide the color that should be used. I think it should be white or an orange color. Uh, well, I don't, uh, disagree with that at all. I think this, uh, all tends to point to the fact that, uh, uh, the major hazards of nighttime driving, uh, lie in the main and the drivers themselves. Uh, the combination of reduced visibility rate, the condition of the driver, uh, frequently quite fatigued at night, uh, some increased, uh, use of intoxicants. In fact, uh, a change in the whole character of the driving population at night. I shouldn't say the whole character. A, uh, a substantial change in the character of the nighttime driving population as compared with that, uh, driving upon the streets of our cities and the highways of our states at night. The highway hypnosis effect, which, uh, as a psychologist, I probably wouldn't accept in just the terminology to use it. However, it does indicate a lowering of attention, and the illustration that, uh, Kreml gave a moment ago is an exam, a beautiful example. You mean where the man was following this truck and just drove right on out behind it? That's right. Unless there's something to distract his attention from the side, something that, uh, flashes or otherwise gets him his attention, he tends to become drowsy. That's one of the prime methods of inducing hypnosis, if any of you have seen a session of looking into a crystal ball or following a point. And this man could be driving along watching these lights. And I remember some of those conditions, they actually stopped, and this person pulled off so he, it would be convenient to run into the back of the vehicle. The vehicle ahead was not at fault at all. Well, Mr. Kreml, I don't want to disagree with you as far as the factors of hypnosis and intoxic... intoxic... intoxic... intoxicants are concerned. But, uh, in the case which I have just mentioned, these youngsters had, uh, just left their homes. They were only a few miles, I think, uh, a maximum of four miles from the homes of the four involved. And, uh, I'm sure that had this train carried some light that these youngsters would not all have been killed in one accident. Well, there's another reason why, uh, perhaps, uh, we should have some kind of reflect-ride materials on vehicles. And, uh, an incident which occurred in our state, as you remember, about a year and a half ago, five youngsters were... Four were killed and one almost killed, passing a vehicle, and then ran into a truck which had stalled and the lights had failed. Mm-hmm. Now, when lights fail, you must have something there to protect the, uh, the truck and so forth. Of course, this would imply that they keep it clean, and that is very essential. Uh, higher speeds, of course, enter into this, too. That is, with, uh, reduced volumes of traffic, there's greater opportunity for speed. And, uh, in relation to, uh, visibility, uh, speeds are much, much higher at night than they are in the daytime. Uh, this, uh, factor of driving beyond the headlights. Lauer, uh, you spoke of that, uh, earlier, uh, before we came on the air. Uh, I, I think that this is a tremendously important factor, and that, uh, many, if not most, of the people, uh, driving at, uh, at, uh, high speeds at night are, in fact, driving beyond their headlights. What do you mean by driving beyond your headlights? Well, driving behind, uh, beyond your headlights is merely the fact that you, uh, drive at such a speed that you can't see as far as your stopping distance would carry you in case it's necessary to stop. Well, how fast can you drive and still drive within your headlights? Well, we made some calculations a few years ago, and whereas day speeds might go well up into 60, 70 miles an hour with a reasonable degree of safety at night on the same basis, it would look as though, uh, 35 miles. This may sound ridiculous, but actually, to be equally safe, you shouldn't drive over 30 or 35 miles an hour over the average road throughout the United States. As an example of this, uh, just a few years ago, uh, as a matter of fact, again, since the war, in Virginia, uh, we had a situation in which a bridge was out on a state highway. Uh, a car, uh, coming along the highway, not seeing that the bridge was out, ran into the river. Uh, this, of course, was, uh, serious enough in and of itself, but the fact is that 10 other cars, over a period of 15 or 20 minutes, following the initial accident, did exactly the same thing. And perhaps would have, uh, this thing would have continued on into the night for a much longer period, but for the fact that one of the drivers in one of the cars that had gone into the river, uh, got out, got back up on the highway and flagged down the traffic. Well, are you saying, Lauer, then, that, uh, and Kreml, if you drive much beyond, uh, 35, 40 miles an hour at night with modern headlights, that you're, uh, you're taking the highway and the farmer's cow and other obstructions that might get on the highway just on faith? That's right. And if the cow happens to be in the pasture where you assume she is, you're okay, but many times they aren't. In Iowa, not long ago, we had 11 cars stack up on one of our cross-state highways, a relatively safe highway. And when I told Ed Field of Braid Magazine, some of you may have seen the, uh, the situation in which in California they had 40 cars run together and interlock at one time. Now, that's due to the lack of visibility, the driving too fast for conditions. Another factor, uh, in this matter of headlighting is headlight blindness. Uh, certainly I know that I develop much higher fatigue when I'm driving at night, uh, if I'm, uh, meeting much oncoming traffic with bright lights. Uh, this, uh, this not only, uh, produces fatigue, but it also, I'm sure, produces some, uh, uh, momentary, uh, reduction, and a substantial one, too, in my ability to see immediately after I've passed such a car. Well, of course, often in passing a car at night, and I'm speaking from personal experience, uh, when those bright headlights hit you, you do drive on faith for just a second or two there. You don't, you don't quite know where you are. There's a definite physiological reason for that, of course. For about five seconds, you are temporarily blinded because of the reduction in visual purple, uh, the, uh, condition of visual purple. Five seconds at, uh, 60 miles an hour, uh, which is 88 feet a second, of course, amounts to some considerable distance to be driving at faith on a, uh, two-lane, uh, rural highway at night. That's main reason, of course, for, uh, uh, increasing the visibility of objects and, uh, for saying that speeds ought to be lower, although, uh, I don't think any state would pass the 35-mile-a-night speed limit. But at the same time, drivers should be, uh, warned of the fact that that is a safe driving speed. And the thing that, uh, Congressman Gross is doing here to make things more visible is along the line that should be, uh, developed and made, uh, a part of our highway improvement system. Well, yes, Dr. Lauer, I don't think we can have too much, uh, uh, reflecting material on the rear end of trucks, on the sides of, uh, unlighted cars. And, uh, uh, box cars and other unlighted cars on the railroads. I just don't think we can have too much luminous material where it counts on vehicles on the, on the highways. I agree with that, uh, fully. Uh, yet I'd like to point out that, uh, there are factors that, uh, are such that they reduce the value of, uh, of such, uh, warning devices as may be put up at night, reflectorized or not. Uh, and one very important factor is drinking at night. We find, of course, that the incidence of drinking among drivers and pedestrians both goes up very markedly at night. And we know that, uh, drinking, uh, not necessarily to the point of legal intoxication, is a very important factor in traffic accidents in both urban and rural areas. In a study that we made at the Traffic Institute at Northwestern University some years ago, for example, we found that persons who had been drinking, but not, not necessarily legally intoxicated, mind you, but persons who had been drinking appeared in the hospitals as drivers or pedestrians involved in accidents 55 times as often as they appeared in the general driving population. We found further that the accidents which these drinking drivers had as a group were twice as severe as the non-drinking driver group. Thus, uh, in the drinking driver accident group, we killed and injured twice as many people per hundred accidents as we did in the non-drinking driver group. I'd like to emphasize that a little more, since Frank has brought it up. Uh, we made some studies, uh, laboratory studies some years ago in which we studied the factors which, uh, and how they affected performance at the wheel. This was a laboratory study, you remember. But distance judgment was cut by 250 percent by seven and a half ounces of gin, taken, uh, two and a half ounces every hour. Now, uh, that was, uh, very revealing to me. It's also noticeable that we had some subjects who, uh, had been drinking or were customary, uh, or alcoholic to some extent. We chose them that way, and others who were naive, and the naive subjects didn't, uh, were affected so much. It was, uh, I shouldn't say the opposite. The person who was used to alcohol was not affected so much, but he was affected. And the judgment went up before coordination, which in many courts, you know, they use coordination as a test, which is only, uh, you could be quite intoxicated, uh, as far as judgment is concerned, and be very only slightly intoxicated as far as coordination is concerned. Well, are you men saying that an important part of this problem is the, is the character of the driving population that we have at night? Well, I wouldn't exactly want to confine it to that. That's a very important factor. However, if you have more youngsters on the highway... We do have more youngsters there. More reckless drivers. I'm, uh, check me if I'm wrong, more people who are intoxicated. Well, I haven't any figures on that. Perhaps, uh, Pramil could give you more data on that than I. Yes, there's, there's a, a great rise, of course, in the, uh, in the number of persons who have been drinking, uh, in the, uh, nighttime hours. There's no, no question about that, and, uh, we don't need a study, although we do have a study to support that fact. All we need to do is to look around us and, uh, see the habits of our friends and neighbors. That is the, the, uh, late afternoon cocktail, uh, drinking after dinner, parties, uh, in the evening. This all contributes, of course, to the high rise in the incidents of people who have been drinking on the streets and highways at night. I would like to point out, however, for Frank's statement, that the, uh, alcoholism as such, or being, uh, uh, liquored up is, of course, bad. But, uh, we must remember that if an object is plainly visible, even a drunk man will usually negotiate some way to get around it, even if he has to run off the road. And, uh, all of these things, lack of sleep, fatigue, uh, alcohol, and so on, reduce efficiency. Lack of stimulation from the side along as one drives. In long stretches out west, they find more accidents than they do in the east, where there are a lot of stimulating objects along the side of the road. Is part of this, is part of this problem, Lauer, in the, uh, in the, we've been talking here about the, uh, the, uh, vicissitudes of the driver himself. How about the, uh, highways in which you men are interested? Does that contribute to this problem? Well, I was interested, yes, in that, along with Congressman Gross' idea of, in all this whole problem of, uh, highways, you've got to make them safer by providing, uh, such, uh, conditions that it is easy to drive at night. If you're, there are a few people, perhaps, who will drink liquor, whatever we do. Well, let's ask, let's ask, let's ask some talk here about this bill of yours, uh, Congressman. You, you're interested specifically in, uh, in getting these, uh, railroad cars visible. What, uh, what do you propose, anyway? Well, let me read, uh, the enabling provision of, uh, H.R. 1821, which, uh, I have introduced, and is now, uh, before the Interstate and Foreign Commerce Committee, the chairman of which is the, uh, is the Honorable Charles A. Wolverton. And, uh, I suggest that anyone interested in furthering this legislation might very well write to, uh, Mr., the Honorable Charles A. Wolverton, chairman of the Interstate and Foreign Commerce, uh, Committee of the House of Representatives. Let me read, uh, the enabling provision. It's very brief. The commission shall make regulations, that is, the Interstate Commerce Commission, shall make regulations requiring that each carrier equip its freight cars and other unlighted cars with reflecting or luminous material in a uniform manner, that such cars can be readily seen and identified at night from approaching motor vehicles. The reflecting or luminous material or materials shall be used at no greater than eight-foot intervals along the length and on both sides of each unlighted car. They shall be of such nature that they are visible at night from distances within 750 feet to 50 feet of the freight car and at all angle crossings between 90 degrees and 45 degrees. Well, now, wouldn't this put your, the railroads to considerable expense, which may or may not be an argument against the bill? No, I don't believe that it will put the railroads to, uh, to, uh, any burden of, uh, exorbitant expense. The bill does not require, and I'm sure that no regulation would be made, providing that the railroads call their freight cars and other unlighted cars in for, uh, the use of this, uh, luminous material. The, uh, freight cars could well be marked when the, uh, cars are called into the rip track for repairs. There's no time limit fixed in the bill, and I'm sure it would, uh, impose no ornerous burden upon the railroads. Do you encounter much opposition to this bill? No, I've had no opposition. Is it opposition or apathy or both? Well, I think, uh, it is to some extent, uh, to some extent apathy. The railroads, uh, thus far have, uh, neither opposed nor been for the bill. But there are, uh, many citizens of this country who are for it. I should like to call your attention to a letter from the, uh, Mr. George L. Brown, Chairman of the Committee on, uh, Motorist Vision and Highway Safety of the New Jersey Optometric Association, which endorses my bill. The Texas Optometric Association, uh, Mr. J.J. Pickle, Executive Secretary, the Texas Optometric Association, is, uh, very much interested in it. A similar bill has been introduced in the Wisconsin legislature by the Honorable Willis J. Hutnick. Well, why, Kreml, why, Kreml, uh, don't we get action on this? Uh, what's your reaction to this bill? Well, I, I think that anything that will, uh, help to make such a serious hazard as an intersecting railroad train more visible is desirable, of course. Uh, I can't help but wonder, uh, as I listen to this, whether or not it couldn't be done in, uh, a multiplicity of ways. Uh, for example, uh, the, the painting of the, uh, undercarriage of, uh, of, uh, railroad freight cars, uh, with some paint which makes them much more visible. As Lauer pointed out earlier, this dark red paint on the cars themselves and the black undercarriage, particularly when they've collected a good deal of dirt from traveling over the road, are about, uh, as poorly visible as anything that, uh, we could, uh, put across a highway. If the undercarriage was painted with aluminum paint, for example, would, uh, would this not do the job? How about that, Congressman? I'm afraid, uh, while I think it would probably be the most effective way, I'm afraid that would run into a considerable expense, a burden of expense to the railroads. I don't think the expense of, uh, painting or using, uh, luminous material on the side of a boxcar, a small disc, comparatively small disc, would be a burden of expense to the railroads, and I think that it would, uh, provide an effective way. Well, coupled with the idea that I was thinking of, uh, painting the undercarriage and so on, anything that makes an object more visible, we should keep in mind that even the manufacturers or headlights themselves are dissatisfied with the present automobile headlights. You get too much light apparently close to you. You don't get too much, but you get so much that it gives you the impression that you have a lot of light out here, and because of the inverse square law, where your light drops off the square of the distance, when you got a thousand feet, you have very little light, even with the finest headlights today. Now, with the possibility of Polaroid or some other device, which we will step up headlights, but likewise cut out half of it in order to reduce glare, we aren't going to improve it. Our condition is still going to be bad so far as, uh, distance is concerned for seeing objects. Well, meanwhile, uh, I think we need reflectorization, uh, not only of railroad cars, but to delineate the sides of highways, to mark center lines. Uh, we need, uh, illumination along some highways, and particularly at bad intersections or along bad stretches of highways, uh, because we can't, of course, afford to illuminate great distances of our highways throughout this country. Uh, we need better, uh, highway design, as indicated by Lauer earlier, better sight distances at curves and hills, uh, better shoulders, and, uh, very importantly, uh, too, we need to, uh, use a type of pavement, particularly as regards color, that will provide for a maximum of, uh, silhouette at least, uh, so that we do improve visibility, uh, by all of these means, as regards all of the hazards present on the highway. In addition, of course, we must have an adequate, uh, policing force out there to see that these, uh, may I say monkeys who will not, uh, follow the rules of the game are properly, uh, brought into line. And, uh, but in the meantime, if we do not do the best we can to improve the physical conditions, we have no argument against those who do violate. In other words, a violation must be made obvious. Yes, sir. Well, this is by way of, uh, saying, I think, that, uh, nighttime accidents are not entirely a special problem. Uh, in order to meet the problem of nighttime accidents, we need to do many of the basic things, uh, necessary to meet accidents of all types. Uh, better highways, we've already discussed. Uh, better driver licensing. Uh, better driver training. Uh, better supervision by the police. And I'd like to say just a word on the inadequacy of, uh, police supervision of traffic on our highways. Uh, we do not in any state in the United States today have anything like a sufficient patrol force to provide, uh, supervision adequate to the terrific volumes that are moving in increasing numbers every year upon our rural highways. As one, um, I quite agree with you, uh, Mr. Crammel, as one who has driven many times from Washington, D.C. to Iowa over Highway 30, I'm astounded by the number of narrow bridges that still exist on a, on a highway, a transcontinental highway, narrow bridges that still exist that won't accommodate a truck, uh, and an automobile at the same time. Are these trucks a special hazard at night, Lower? I, I don't think they are. I think they are only a hazard because, uh, of two things, uh, in so far as they might be. One is the fact that we haven't leveled our roads off enough so they can maintain their speeds. And the other is that, uh, our drivers do not drive along with them. Anytime you drive out of average, over the average speed, you're introducing hazards. I should like to interject just one thing into this, that I think it's time that, uh, the federal government stopped spending so much money on building of roads in the Belgian Congo and, uh, Timbuktu and various other places over the world, and devote more of that money to the improvement of the highways of the United States of America. Just another word on the truck and bus driver on the highway. Uh, on the highway or on the city street, they are among our best drivers. And their accident rate has been going down constantly. Uh, as contrasted with the private, uh, passenger car driver's experience, which has been going up constantly. I'm just going to emphasize that. They are getting better, and we have to blame the lay drivers for most of our accidents, not the professional drivers. But you'd think that a night driver, without the diversions, uh, provided by signs and so forth, could mind his business and, uh, avoid these accidents, Lauer. Without those? Yeah. No, I, uh, I don't think he could so easily. I mean, after all, you want, uh, you could walk along a rough pavement without spraining your ankle. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. How Can We Reduce Nighttime Accidents? We want to thank our guests for today. The Honorable H.R. Gross, United States Representative from Iowa. Franklin Kreml, Director of the Traffic Institute, Northwestern University. And A.R. Lauer, Director of the Iowa State College Driving Laboratory. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, how far should we go in supporting farm prices? Our guests will include Richard R. Heffelbauer, Chairman of the Department of Economics at Northwestern University, and Alan Klein, President of the American Farm Bureau Federation. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, how far should we go in supporting farm prices? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey.