Now the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee. Mr. Mayor, it's a great honor to present to you the returning commander of the United States Armed Forces in Europe, Lieutenant General Clarence Hoobner. Whalen, General Hoobner, Mrs. Hoobner, Miss Hoobner. General Wyman, distinguished visitors, we of New York City have special reason for taking particular pride in the First Division, the United States Army, and in its commanding officer, Lieutenant General Hoobner. Neither the Fighting Firsts nor General Hoobner are strangers to New York City. And if I'm not mistaken, following the First World War, Grover Whalen, at that time too, welcomed that division back from Europe. And at that time, General Hoobner was a major commanding a regiment of the division. During the years between world wars, the Fighting Firsts had its official home at Fort Hamilton, Brooksy. And hence, that division is often thought of as New York's own. Therefore, in extending, General Hoobner, a well-deserved heroes welcome to the United States Army. I feel that we are again saying, General, welcome home. General Hoobner has held every grade in the First Division from private to major general. And his service in every rank he held has been as distinguished as the record of the division he commanded. General Hoobner commanded the First when it landed at Omaha Beach. And from that landing, he led his men through the hard, tough, relentless fighting in northern France and into Germany. Since the Armistice, General Hoobner has served in top-level positions in the European theater. He has been deputy to and acted for General Clay, and later General Handley, in matters of civil government and the occupation of Germany. But his particular force and responsibility was that of actual command. General Hoobner has served in the first three years, General Hoobner has served in the first three years of all the ground forces in Europe. General Hoobner, the early days of the occupation of Germany were dangerous and difficult for the American soldier. General Hoobner, because of his soldierly strength and character, was largely responsible for maintaining a proper sense of discipline among our occupying troops. That orderliness and sense of discipline, which has marked the behavior of our men in occupied Germany, has been a mighty factor in the success of that occupation. General Hoobner has come home to New York City for two reasons. First, to attend a meeting next week of the Society of the First Division, of which he is president. And second, to prepare for retirement next fall. General, I understand, sir, and I'm varying the script a little bit, what it means to get out. It's sometimes more difficult to get out than it is to get in. I thoroughly sympathize with that phase of your present predicament. I know that in welcoming you home, and in wishing you and yours every happiness in your coming retirement, which you have well earned, I speak for all the freedom-loving and grateful people of our city. May God give you and yours many happiness, many happy years, to enjoy with your loved ones this well-earned rest. And now, sir, it is my privilege, possibly this will be the last, and certainly among the greatest, as mayor of New York, to present to you, sir, this certificate, which I shall read to you for the benefit of those present and listening in. Office of the mayor, city of New York, know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Lieutenant General Clarence Orr-Hubner, United States Army, whose public benefactions as a fighting member of the 1st Division and as commander of that division and commander-in-chief of the United States Ground Forces in Europe have upheld the finest traditions of the United States Army and have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. Sir, I have never felt a sense of honor greater than the one that I do in carrying out the mandate of the people of the city to make this presentation to you. And the cameramen are demanding their innings for this historic moment, and the mayor very obligingly turns the scroll around, so the cameras will get a dead-on view of the scroll itself. In fact, he's moving General Hubner over to the railing, where even a better view of the rostrum was blocking it a little bit, and now the mayor is standing there with a happy smile on his face to match the smile of General Hubner, who's retiring after 40 years of service in the cause of his country. He has just returned from Europe, where he has been... General Clubert. Mr. Whelan, just made the announcement. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'm deeply grateful and very humbled for all the honors that have been paid to me this morning. We in our homeland are so blessed with such a wonderful country. Coming back from Europe, which is war-torn and desperate, to get off that ship this morning and to see New York as it is, is quite a wonderful feeling. As your mayor has just told you, in September of 1919, I made that same trip with our great soldier, General Pershing, leading the college. I commanded a regiment at that time. Now all of this has been brought about by our armed services. And I bring you a message from those people in Germany who are over there as the advance guard. It's the mission of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force to hold off the enemy long enough so that the National Guard and our country can mobilize. And in so far as the troops in Germany are concerned, you can rest assured that you are well represented. The Army is equipped and trained as I've never seen American troops before. They will do their job and they will do it well. We're supported by a superior Air Force who works very closely with the Army and is thoroughly and completely trained. The Navy, while small in numbers, backs us up, not only at Bremerhaven but on the Rhine. And I can assure you, if you need have no worry about the troops in Germany. These are very trying times. But we must go back to the very beginning to understand the mission of our armed services. We could have large standing armies as other countries have. We could be militaristic in viewpoint, but we're not. We've decided on another way to maintain our freedom. And that way is that we set up in the regular services enough people, and enough people only, to cover us while we get ready. And after 40 years of service in the government, I assure you that we in America have more to protect and more to benefit from what the world has for us than any other place in the world. And I'm very proud and I'm very happy that I could be a member of this great organization. I thank you. Thank you. I thank you. Thank you. Thank you.