It's 10 o'clock and we have the cooperation of the Medical Society of the County of New York each week at this time in discussing your good health in the Health Shed Education Series of your city. Thank you. Good morning. About 2,000 years ago, when the Roman Empire was in full glory, most people died at a very early age. The average length of life in those days was about 22 years. Today, we feel that anyone near or just under 22 is practically a child. My, times do change. For example, in George Washington's time, anyone over 40 was considered to have reached a ripe old age. The average lifespan then was about 35 years. Now, we consider the fifth decade the prime of life. And today, the life expectancy is about 65 years in this country. Modern medical discoveries have tended to prolong our lives. We no longer need fear the plagues and other deadly epidemics of yesteryear. We have learned how to prevent most contagious illness and how to cure many that we cannot prevent. For example, until recent years, pneumonia was a deadly enemy, especially of elderly people. Once the pneumonia germs invaded the lungs, only a miracle would save these older people. Yet, within the last ten years, there has been a 70% decline in pneumonia deaths. Although the pneumonia problem is not completely solved, we have made tremendous headway thanks to the discovery of new drugs. People are now living longer than ever before. And because of this, they are facing other health problems that were not common long ago because most people in the past didn't live long enough to develop them. In fact, a new branch of medicine has developed to combat the health problems of old age. This medical field is called geriatrics and covers all the ills that elderly individuals are apt to acquire, like arthritis, heart conditions, and cancer. Of course, young people are subject to these conditions also, but they do occur much more frequently in older individuals. There is, however, a very important cause of death among elderly people, which many of us do not take into consideration seriously. For that matter, most of us wouldn't think of it as a menace to life. This cause of death isn't a disease and can be brought on in several different ways, all coming under the heading of home accidents. Of course, home accidents occur among all age groups, but elderly individuals are particularly susceptible. And what's more, an accident which occurs to a child or a young adult won't be nearly as serious as it would be if the same accident happened to a person of 65. The younger bodies can mend more readily. We're beginning to realize that we must take measures in order to make our homes safe places to grow old in. We can't just take it for granted that everything is all right because we haven't had an accident so far. Over half the people involved in fatal home accidents in recent years were over 65 years of age. This means that more than one half of the fatal accidents involve older people. And these people lost their lives unnecessarily because of carelessness on someone's part. If a few precautions had been taken, these accidents never would have happened. By far the greatest causes of unnecessary fatalities among older people are falls. For example, when 15,000 deaths due to falls were analyzed, some amazing facts were brought out. People of 45 to 64 were 10% of the casualties. When we reach those who are over 65, we find the most surprising increase. These individuals total 84% of all those killed in home accidents. This means that of 15,000 people injured fatally in home accidents all over the country, over 12,000 were old folks. Right here in New York City, of 1,800 people fatally injured in home accidents, 911, or 50%, were over 65 years of age. It is ironic that after going safely through life and reaching a ripe old age, that the life of an individual could be snuffed out by an accident. Of course, it's tragic when an accident occurs to anyone. Yet if we make our homes safe enough for the older folks, we can be sure all the others will profit. Remember that old saying about a chain being as strong as its weakest link? Well, the weakest link in the safety chain at home is the elderly member of the family. If we strengthen that link by making our home safe for the elderly individuals, we can reasonably be certain it will be safe for every other member of the family. Our first step is to analyze the greatest cause of home accidents, falls, and then do something about it. Most falls occur in the kitchen. They may take place when Grandpa or some other member of the household lends a helping hand and tries to take a dish down from a high shelf. Grandpa climbs on a chair, but that's not high enough. So he piles some odds and ends on the chair, adds a phone book or two. Ah, it's a little shaky, but with some straining he can reach that elusive plate. There it is, just made it. But the foundation of telephone books and encyclopedias on the chair weren't quite solid enough. For a few perilous seconds, Grandpa weaves back and forth, trying to grab at the closet. Then comes the inevitable. The phone books slip out from under, and with a loud crash, Grandpa tumbles to the floor. The next day, the neighbors wonder why Grandpa has his arm in a sling. Falling down cluttered or dark stairs is also a frequent cause of accidents among elderly people. Falls are particularly dangerous to elderly individuals because their bones are so brittle. They not only break easier, but they take much longer to heal than do the bones of younger people. And that is why we must be so careful about removing causes of falls. Another danger zone for falls is the bedroom. Next to the kitchen, more falls occur in the bedroom than in any other room in the house. Why? Well, sleepiness and darkness make people ready victims of dangers which they would otherwise avoid. For example, a tear in the linoleum or a turned up edge has sent many a person to the floor and thence to the hospital. The sleepy wanderer may slip on loose rugs, on polished floors, or on rumpled rugs. He may trip over misplaced stools and other furniture, and also carelessly drop shoes and clothing. Yet these are the things we rarely give a thought to until something happens. Or if there are children in the house, they should be taught to place their toys away carefully each night. Besides being an excellent habit to cultivate in every youngster, it is also a very good safety precaution, as a friend of mine found out. Her father lived with a family, and they all got along very well together. Grandfather played with the children every day, and they loved him. Unfortunately, the youngsters were never taught to put their toys away each night. So they left the playthings lying helter-skelter around the house. Well, one night, they left their toys in Grandpa's room, and then went to bed. In the middle of the night, Grandpa stepped out of bed, right onto a sharp-walled toy truck. The sole of his foot was badly gashed, and there was danger of infection for a while. The youngsters got a spanking over Grandpa's protest, and Mother made them put their toys away each night after that. In this case, the fault of the accident was definitely not the children. We can't expect youngsters to have the same insight as grown-ups, and we can't expect them to do the right thing instinctively. Mothers ought to teach their children habits that they would like them to have. It's good for the children, and it's an excellent safety practice. I can't stress too much the importance of taking safety measures, especially when older folks are around. What other safety measures can we take to make our homes a better place to live in? Well, first, I would say everything that may lead to a fall should be taken care of. Those slippery scatter rugs can be made safer if we place small, non-slip pads under them. Secondly, bright lights should be installed at danger spots, sections like stair landings and other places where falls are likely to occur. Remember, the older folks haven't the eyesight that they used to have, and we must take additional precautions when we take that into consideration. Another thing to be very careful of is fire. Smoking in bed has been responsible for many a fatal accident. Hardly a week goes by but that we read of someone who fell asleep while smoking in bed and was burned to death when the bedding caught on fire. Don't let that happen in your home. If you have stairs in your home, it's a good idea to check them once in a while. Worn carpeting with upturned edges should be replaced. Toys and other objects littering the steps should be removed immediately. And if possible, handrails conveniently placed along the staircase will be an excellent convenience and help to prevent falls. All these things should, of course, be checked before an accident and not after. Another deadly menace is asphyxiation. Whenever you smell escaping gas, check the burners on your gas range immediately and see if the pilot light went off accidentally. If you can't locate the source of the trouble and never use a match to do it, open the windows wide and call the gas company. If the escaping gas makes you feel sick, leave the house immediately. I would also like to add a word of warning to those of you who use gas burners to heat the house. While gas burns, uh, while gas burns, it uses up oxygen. Now, in a cold day, the danger is greater because we keep the doors and windows tightly closed. Of course, this makes the room warmer, but it also prevents air from coming in. After several hours, the gas burner has consumed quite a bit of oxygen in the room, which can't be replaced. You may then find yourself becoming dizzy or maybe you'll have a headache. These are danger signals. When you notice them, the best thing to do is to open the windows and get fresh air immediately. The best way to prevent an asphyxiation accident is to leave windows slightly open and to be alert when using a gas appliance. Only the other day, I read about an old couple that was killed by asphyxiation. The woman set a pot of coffee on the gas range and then she dozed off. In a few minutes, the coffee boiled over, put out the flame and turned the room into a gas chamber. And accidents of this type are far more common among elderly people than among younger individuals. So if you know an elderly couple, won't you remind them to be on the alert for this vicious hazard? And last but not least, let's not forget the bathroom. I have mentioned this bathroom in every one of my previous talks. Bathrooms may be small places, but they certainly claim more than their share of serious accidents. Slipping as one gets in or out of the tub is very dangerous. This can be overcome by masks. An old Turkish towel will do. We should tell everyone in the house, young and old, about the danger of electrocution. We all know that we shouldn't touch electric light switches while our hands are wet or while we're standing on a moist spot. Yet sometimes we have to forget these things. And that's why we can't impress the members of our family too often with the importance of being careful with electrical equipment. The medicine chest was mentioned before and I'd like to refer to it again this morning. This has proved responsible for thousands of accidental suicides. You know how it is. Grandpa may have heartburn after he goes to bed. So he stumbles out. His eyes be fogged by sleep. And he reaches into the chest for the bicarbonate. Or even if he's fully awake, he probably didn't bother to put on his reading glasses. Maybe he couldn't find them. As a result, he can't read the label and he feels around for a container resembling the bicarbonate box. Unfortunately, the boric acid container may look exactly like that of the bicarbonate container. Or the iodine bottle may look like cough syrup. Grandpa will then become one of the 400 persons who die in New York City each year by accidental poisoning. Every bottle containing poison should be labeled so that one can tell by feeling. This isn't as difficult as it sounds. We can, for example, stick pins into the cork. Or we can stick some adhesive tape over the top. In any case, the whole family must be told about the system so that sleepy medicine seekers will not make a fatal mistake by taking a poison instead of a good remedy. Don't let your medicine cabinet mean bad medicine. Spend a few moments making it safe. You'll be glad you did it. Science has made enormous strides in lengthening our lifespan. Let's keep pace with science and make our home a healthy, safer place to grow old in. A home made safe for the older folks will pay dividends to the entire family. Don't wait. Play safe now. Thank you.