I would add further that the prospects are that those sanctions will not be fixed for some considerable time to come. Why then all this haste over this application, which seems to me so premature, for some reasons which I have given, when one remembers that for two and three years old established, recognised governments and countries have been barred admission to this organisation, why are we in such a hurry now to admit straightway this new entity, which one day we may welcome, why must it be admitted immediately and without any delay? I apologise, Mr. President, if I have strayed a little bit beyond the region which you marked out for us in our discussions this afternoon. I, as I said, agree entirely that the matter should go now to a membership committee. But again, in all frankness, I give notice that in that committee, my delegation will move to a deferment of the consideration of this application. The delegation will move to a meeting. Mr. President, after the remarks that you have pronounced for a few moments, I thought that... You propose that you will act in accordance with Article 69. So far, on the substance of the debate on the Security Council on the question of Israel's membership in the United Nations, there have been two speakers here this afternoon, representatives of the United States and the United Kingdom. The third speaker is the representative of Syria, Forrest Bale. ...admissions of new members. And that is normal and natural procedure. And certainly I had no intention or idea to speak on this subject today, because I thought that if it is referred there, we have to wait till we have the report of that committee. And then the question on its substance will be discussed in that time. And I was really surprised when I found that the Honourable Representative of the United States took the floor, and started his long speech on the substance of the subject. I thought that he would ask at the end not to refer it to the Committee of Admission, because this preambus and these arguments we should produce would mean that he would end by asking that the Security Council would take decisions right away without referring to the Committee of Admission. But to the contrary of that, he did otherwise and agreed with your first proposal that it would be referred there without any discussion. Well, then why, if he meant that, he gave us this long speech? Is it to make us understand what is the policy of himself and his government? Everybody knows over all the world till now, what is the policy and attitude of President Truman and his politicians around him, and his representatives in the Security Council and in the United Nations. Well, that means, as I understand it, it may be meant as a propaganda for others, the other listeners who would like to hear this, and this is not an address directed to the members of the Security Council, it is for others to be heard. Well, I don't blame him for that, it is his business, let him do what he likes. And as we have no other object to make propaganda and use it here in the Security Council, I should not wish to speak on the subject now. I wait till the report would come from the Committee of Admission. But as you have referred to the matter of urgency, and you said the Council should take its stand on this point of urgency, I have to say a few words on that point. I don't understand why the Honourable Delicate of the United States wanted it to be urgent, and wanted you, Mr. President, to instruct the Committee of Admission to submit their report not later than Monday, that is, during the weekend. Let them meet and prepare their report and make all these discussions, which would take certainly very long time, to study the situation, which is not so clear as he sees it. If he sees it so, we don't see it so. And other members also would like to see it better and clearer than he does. And he asked you to ask this urgency from the Committee. My delegation doesn't agree at all about the urgency of this matter, and just the contrary. I don't see it urgent at all. I see that it's premature, it should not have been submitted now, and it was worthy to be postponed indefinitely, to be left off till other circumstances and new developments will appear. There are many things which have been, for the application of admission of new members, who have been suffering now, and put in patience, on the shelves of the Security Council. We have 12 applications of states who are more appropriate, and more worthy, of being admitted into the membership of the United Nations, than this so-called state of Israel, which was manufactured, simply by some people, imperialists, who wish to have for themselves certain profits and secure benefits in the Near East. It is a manufactured state. It has no foundation, no existence, except by aggression. That means any people who go to a place and make an aggression, and then come and ask our Security Council to recommend their admission, and consider it urgent. Why urgent? Why the case is special? I agree with him that there is some special circumstances. Yes, there are special circumstances in this case, but to the contrary, to the special circumstances, to reject this admission, not to accept it at all and comply with it. but not to make it urgent and give it ground so soon. I know. What is the reason that this should be so urgent? Is that, as he said, that they expressed readiness to comply with the instructions and with the resolutions and recommendations of the United Nations and the Security Council? Is that true? In the next, when the means in time comes, I will give specifications to tens of cases when they did the contrary. They did not do that at all. Is that the way to recompense them for deliberately assassinating the mediator who represented the United Nations, to give them admission so quick and so urgent? I don't understand how the representatives of the United States, while his country is considered by over all the world that they are supporters of freedom, supporters of liberty, supporters of good sense and justice in the world, would come here and say, after such actions, to give them such urgency and preference and priority to all others. I know that when we were discussing the admission of Bulgaria for it and other states of the Balkan country, the representatives of the United States said that they did not admit the observers who were assigned by the United Nations and the Security Council to enter into their frontiers. For this reason, we consider that they are not worthy of being admitted. well, however, but I say that Bulgaria did not kill the observers, did not massacre them deliberately and with meditation as the case of the mediator and his colleague, Colonel Serow. In that respect, I don't see how it would be plausible and would be admissible that to accept such declarations that they are obedient to the security laws. And he proved, gave a proof that they were ready to comply with the demands and resolutions of the General Assembly that when the resolution of November 29 last year was announced to them, they accepted it. Well, certainly they accepted it. That would resemble that father who said about a very bad son of his that you see he is very obedient. I tell him, take this plate of good apricots and eat them. He eats them right away. Take this sugar that needed, he eats it. Certainly, he does it. He said he is obedient to his father because he eats the chocolate which he gives to him. That's not enough. But when he orders him to do something, to act, to work, to leave his evils, he is not obedient at all. Is that the way because they accepted the resolution of the partition of Palestine? Certainly, what do they lose in that? It was an offer. It was a present given to them gratuitously. Certainly, they accepted. Is that an obedience? But when they were told to withdraw from positions which they had no right to occupy, when they were told not to make breaches to the truth, not to violate the truth, not to increase their ammunition, not to change their political and their military position, they did not obey to that at all. It is well known that they have been violating this incessantly. is that compliance with the resolutions of the General Assembly or the Security Council, I don't see how he admits himself to make such a statement. He said that they are, they have conformity with the definitions by the international law of a state. That is, they have territory which has no boundaries, they have population, people, where are the people? Half the people of that territory which they occupy are expelled and dispersed throughout the country. They are left homeless now and starving and dying. These are the people of the territory which he is occupying. Does he mean that they come here and represent them? How can they represent people dispersed in such a form and consider them that they are peace-loving, that they are complying with all the requirements of Article 4 of the Charter? that is not the way in which we have to discuss our matters here and keep our prestige and dignity for the world. He says it will serve peace. We are here to serve the maintenance of peace and security. It is known to him and to all others that the admission of the so-called State of Israel to the United Nations would do the contrary. Not to serve peace, it would just become it to serve peace. We are here to create friendly relations between member states and nations. We are not creating any friendship. There are seven Arab states, there are so many states of Muslim work in Asia and other places who are against this. There are so many people who are in China, in India, in France, in the United Kingdom, in the Soviet Union. Ask in the Soviet Union country, there are 25, 30 million Muslims. They are all against this idea. They are to test against it. And in French, the French colonies and possessions in North Africa, there are 25 million Muslims and Arabs and perhaps other Muslims who are non-Arabs. All of them are against it. They would be upset by such a thing of the United Nations. And then, yet, they consider it urgent. Why urgent? Because they gained their votes and they had certain advantages in New York and Washington and other places in the United States. For these reasons, it becomes urgent. Neglecting and over-threading all feelings and sentiments of 400 million Muslims and Arabs and Christians over all the world. Seeing what they are doing for the holy places and the holy land. I will submit to the Security Council a long list of these atrocities committed by them. And yet, consider it is urgent, it is helpful to serve the Jews. The Jews were persecuted in Europe, but the Arabs of Palestine did not persecute them. They are going back now to retaliate on the Arabs of Palestine, to massacre them in the worse, better, and more cruel than they have been treated in Germany and Eastern Europe. Is that the way that the Security Council and the United Nations members would deal with such international matters and humanitarian cases? However, now there is not the time to enlarge this subject and speak more than that. The matter will return to us later and we will have time, ample time, to discuss it fully. Thank you, Mr. President. Le délégué de la Syrie. Mr. President, lorsque la question s'est présentée pour la première fois, vous nous avez proposé de suivre la procédure... ...the framework which you outlined for the benefit of the members of the Council. This framework, indeed, is the only one which is in accordance with our rules of procedure and which meets the requirements of the good order of our work. The rules of procedure of the Security Council provide a specific procedure to be followed in respect of applications. Such applications are to be referred to a committee of the Security Council which shall examine such applications and report conclusions thereon to the Council. No such study, no such examination has taken place, no such report has been submitted. Therefore, the discussion of the substance of the question here is premature. One other point is indicated by a paragraph of the letter of the representative of Israel which introduces his application for admission. In that letter, the representative of Israel requests that in respect of that application an urgent procedure be resorted to under Rule 60, Paragraph 5 of the Council's rules of procedure. However, when the representative of the United States referred to the urgency with which this question should be dealt with, I do not think that he was referring to the procedure of that particular rule of the Council's rule of procedure. And I believe in this connection that it is too early to envisage the utilization of that particular rule as it is too early to discuss the substance of the matter. Now, when we have before us the report of the Committee on Admission of New Members and when thus we shall be able to form an opinion, then we shall also be in a position of deciding whether the provisions of Rule 60, Paragraph 5 are applicable. In other words, whether we shall submit an immediate recommendation to the General Assembly without awaiting the expiry of the normal time limits which I think are 35 days. The representative of the United States, as I understood him, used the word urgency in a more limited acceptation. He felt that it should be the Committee of New Members which should work urgently and should not permit any delay. And in principle, I agree with this comment of the representative of the United States. My delegation wishes to point out further that it feels that the first committee of the General Assembly ought to be given an opportunity of completing its study of the Palestinian question before any decision is taken here on the application of Israel. In that connection, I may point out that the first committee's debates are drawing to a close. The committee is now in the process of voting on the various draft resolutions. In a few days, at the end of this week probably, the first committee shall have finished its work. Once we know the outcome of that work and once we know the shape of the recommendation that will be submitted to the General Assembly, once we also know the reaction of the provisional government of Israel to the various clauses of such recommendations, then we will be in a position of adopting a decision in respect of the application for admission. I shall... I'm confining myself at this point, Mr. President, to these considerations, but I reserve the right of my delegation to make a broader statement when the report of the committee comes up. The representative of the Soviet Union who was given the floor a few moments ago is Mr. Jacob Malik. He is speaking in Russian and this is for the information of our English language listeners or generally speaking our listeners in North America which area this transmission is themed. The translation of Mr. Malik's remarks into English will be given after the original statement is completed. This is the United Nations Radio speaking to you directly. Mr. President, I am compelled to depart to some extent from your ruling in dealing with the question... in dealing with... because I have to deal with some questions which have been touched upon in some previous statements. It is difficult indeed to proceed to an utter separation of questions of procedure and questions of substance. and we cannot while dealing with questions of procedure in passing reserve our rights to take up questions of substance subsequently. When we talk... when I talk about procedure I shall be compelled to some extent to refer to some questions of substance. Rule 60, paragraph 5 of the rules of procedure of the Security Council provides that in special circumstances the Security Council may decide to make a recommendation to the General Assembly concerning an application for membership subsequent to the expiration of the time limit set forth in the preceding paragraph. Thus, the Security Council has every reason to consider the application which has now been submitted to it particularly since the Security Council and the United Nations as a whole have been dealing with the Palestinian question for a lengthy time already. The Palestinian question is an item to which the United Nations upon which the United Nations has lavished and is still lavishing more time and more attention than numerous other questions. Now, the State of Israel was created and is now extant in accordance with the decision of the General Assembly of the 29th of November 1947. It is not correct to say that its territorial status is indeterminate. this territory was clearly determined and delimited by an international decision which was the decision of the United Nations General Assembly of the 29th of November. The experience of the... the experience afforded by the existence of the State so far has shown that it fully meets the conditions specified in Article 4 of the Charter. Indeed, when it was first created, it made an appeal for peace. It was... this was its first... these were its first words. It made an appeal for peace and for peaceful relations with its neighbors. And it is not... it is not to blame if no... neither the near neighbors nor some states further away gave an appropriate reaction to this appeal for peace. We know about the difficulties that accompany the formation of that state. It was hindered by some outside forces from taking shape. Nevertheless, it showed vitality and viability. It showed its capacity of complying with international obligations, including the obligations imposed upon that state by the United Nations in general and by the Security Council in particular. During the consideration of the Palestinian question, both in the Security Council and in the General Assembly, the Soviet Union has adhered to a position which is one of principle and which has been marked by consistency. The Soviet delegation supported the decision of the General Assembly of the 29th of November in respect of the establishment in Palestine of two independent states, an Arab state and a Jewish state, upon a determination of the mandate of the United Kingdom. The Soviet delegation feels that this decision was the only correct and equitable solution of the Palestinian question. It was the only decision which meets the fundamental national interests of the Jewish and Arab peoples of Palestine, each of which enjoys the indubitable right of self-determination and of statehood. The development of events which led to the establishment of the State of Israel was logical, was cogent, and was directly actuated by the resolution of the 29th of November. The Soviet Union, therefore, having taken a position of principle, has found no need of changing this position as some others were compelled to do. Some others who, departing from the resolution of the General Assembly, envisaged some other methods such as citizenship and mediation, and were then compelled by the force of events to revert to the resolution of the 29th of November. The Soviet delegation, as I've said, has adhered to a single position, and it has felt and it feels that the sole correct solution of the Palestinian question is the implementation of the decision of the 29th of November. The Soviet delegation adheres to this position now in announcing that it supports the application of Israel to admission, to membership in the United Nations. In conclusion, I should like to supply some information for the particular benefit of the Honorable Representative of Syria, Mr. El Khoury, who, in his statement, told the members of the Council that he has some information about the opinions of 25 million Muslims of the Soviet Union in respect of Palestine. Mr. President, I question this information. I submit further that it is not in accordance with reality. I am compelled to disappoint Mr. El Khoury and to advise him if he is not already informed about the subject, that in the Soviet Union, according to the Constitution, the people live and create independent or autonomous or self-governing entities, not in accordance with religious considerations, but according to national considerations. According to our Constitution, the peoples of the Soviet Union enjoy the right of self-determination and of statehood up to and including secession from the Union. With respect to all peoples of all creeds, be they Muslims, Orthodox, or Catholics, the Soviet people and the Soviet government pursue a firm principle, a principle which has solved fundamentally the national question in the Soviet Union. This principle is the basis of self-determination and the right of all peoples to statehood. The position of the Soviet people, regardless of creed, and the position of the Soviet government as expressed in its internal and external policy is that each people should have the right to self-determination and to statehood. Therefore, Mr. El Khoury's representations as regards the feelings of the Muslims who live in the Soviet Union are not correct. in addition. The Soviet Union would give the same attention to an application for admission to the United Nations given by an Arab state if created on Palestinian territory pursuant to the resolution of the 29th of November. Unfortunately, by virtue of certain circumstances, such an Arab state has not yet been created. Le délégué de l'Union s'adrissique. Monsieur le Président, je serai obligé d'enfin alors quelque peu la décision de l'Union de l'Union s'adrissique. Merci.