The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Selling your ideas on the job. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand deals with the individual worker and his job. In our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion, our panel will consider how the office worker, the executive, the assembly line worker, or the laborer can achieve success in his position. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are J. W. Allsdorf, president of the Cori Corporation. Harold F. North, director of industrial relations with Swift & Company. Ben Cartman, associate editor of Coronet Magazine. And Albert C. Van Dusen, professor of psychology at Northwestern University. Today we discuss selling your ideas on the job. In an article of this title in the January issue of Coronet Magazine, William J. Riley has this to say. You can't build a successful background in any field or business by just taking on a job, following directions, and being punctual, faithful, and a hard-working employee. You must do something unusual to get favorable attention. And one of the simplest ways to gain recognition and advancement is to develop a reputation for being a person with good ideas. He goes on. I know of no business, trade, or profession that is not hungry for men and women who can face a problem, think it through, and solve it. Any executive will tell you that many of his people just go through the motions of doing the job. Even if a good idea does occur to them, they do nothing about it. Now, this leads me to ask, first, gentlemen, what do employers look for in an employee? Do you agree with the statement I just read from Coronet? How about that, Al Dordor? Yes, I do. And as we all know, a corporation or a company is not just a cold entity. It is made up of a group of individuals. And therefore, an employer, when he is looking for an employee, he's looking for someone to add to his team. It's just like an athletic team. So the first thing they look for is an employee with diligence, ability, and dependability, and also, if possible, someone with ideas. Because at the time they hire them for a specific job, there's also the future prospects for that employee, and he has opportunities to advance if he is so qualified. What's your opinion on this, Cartman? I agree with Mr. Alsdorf. While it's commendable and highly important for an employee to be very punctual and faithful, that he be at his desk at 9 and still be there at 5, this, after all, does not require a great deal of imagination. And it's the imagination that makes the difference between staying on a job and getting ahead. Do you have your opinion, North? Well, I think that we look, first of all, for a man's ability to do the job that we have for him to do. Next, we look for an ability in him to grow. And that is, of course, the ability to contribute ideas to the business. We think that his future rests on his ability for growth just as much as it does and his ability to do the job that we have for him at the moment. Van Dusen? I think we're all looking for people with ideas. But one of the things that causes the biggest difficulty in our way of life is, uh, having an opportunity for the ideas to get the people who are in a position to act upon them. Well, I believe that, uh, many employees do not appreciate how receptive management in most companies is to new ideas. In fact, they are constantly seeking an opportunity to getting new ideas from the employees. And in many instances, I believe employees are a little hesitant about presenting their ideas, not realizing how much they are wanted. Well, what do you men mean by an idea man, anyway? Kind of a person, is he, North? Well, I think of an idea man as a sort of a fellow who always keeps himself underpaid on the job that he's on by doing more than the job actually calls for. By looking at it in terms of how it can be improved, uh, what it takes to improve it, and, uh, how best to go about doing it. And then getting those ideas to his immediate supervisor or through a formal suggestion plan where they can be given consideration. I think that's a good way of putting it, North. I certainly think that an idea man is a fellow who spots better ways and better methods of doing things before the emergencies actually arrive. Cartman? I think an idea man, too, is one who is, uh, thinking of things not only for his own job but for the organization as a whole. In other words, he's thinking of, uh, whatever he can do to contribute to the, uh, welfare of the company. Do men of this sort, uh, come along very often, Altsworth? Yes, surprisingly enough, they come along quite frequently. Our company happens to be in consumer products making home appliances. And, obviously, our severest critics are our own employees. And you would be amazed at the suggestions that come up from our employees of new ways of making our products, new uses for the products, and, in fact, even revolutionary new ideas on potential product development. Cartman, did you have a point? Yes, in my field, the production of a magazine, we're essentially dealing in a package of ideas. In other words, we're, we're selling a package of ideas month after month. If we didn't have the ideas, we'd go out of business. And we are extremely receptive to ideas from anyone in the organization. We have received, uh, suggestions for features, pictorial and editorial features, from clerical employees, stenographers, even switchboard operators, that have been followed through, developed, and have appeared in the magazine. Well, what kind of education and training do you, do you recommend to produce the sort of employee we're talking about, North? Well, I think education is something which, uh, the man brings to the job out of his experience or out of his formal attendance at school. I think training is the sort of thing which we give him on the job that equips him to do what we want him to do, in the way that we want him to do it, and gives him an understanding of the, of the importance of doing it that way. I also suggest to him the idea that, uh, we do want improvements in so far as he's, as he's able to contribute to it. That suggests to me, North, that, uh, you might look upon the, the schools, the universities, and whatnot, to provide this broad education that you feel is necessary. And I think that's the kind of thing that we attempt to do in the university. We do a lot of it, as you know, in the evening division. As a matter of fact, I think a lot of your employees come to the university by the evening. And there we might be providing some of that broad education that's so necessary to supplement the specific training on the job that you people provide. Well, we think of it not as a supplement to the training that, uh, we do on the job, but rather as a background against which to apply this training on the job. So much the value. We pick up where you leave off, uh, insofar as the particular job is concerned. As I believe we all agree, it's not only a question of training as well as education, but there's also the question of adaptability of the employee. And I think that's a very important consideration. And, uh, my experience, uh, with the industrial outfits where we've introduced the selection programs, and, uh, many, many, uh, companies are coming to a screening test and that sort of thing. Uh, you can get, uh, really from, uh, the test scores of, uh, your employees, uh, uh, a kind of an index of your potential idea source. Yes, I know that. And it's something that industry has been very grateful for and is making considerably more use of, as we all know. Mr. Clarkman? Assuming that an employee has the education and basic experience for a job, many organizations prefer to train them themselves so that they know that they know, understand their own policies and their own ways of doing things, and they don't find it necessary to untrain them. Mr. Clarkman, you gentlemen put much, uh, faith in these selection and, uh, testing programs that Van Dusen is talking about? Oh, yes, we do. We use them as far as they can be applied, uh, in our organization. We haven't yet reached the point of manual skill, uh, levels. But, uh, in sales work and clerical work, stenographic work, typist, uh, uh, uh, people of that character, uh, we use them, uh, as an index or, uh, a suggestion of, uh, what the person's adaptability may be. But, uh, we also take into account what we call a patterned interview, which relates itself along with the test program itself to the job requirements. Well, now, we, uh, we're talking about, uh, selling ideas on the job. I think we've gotten out here a pretty good, uh, picture of the kind of person, uh, uh, industry is, is looking for. Uh, how receptive, though, is management to these new ideas when they come from employees, Altsdorf? I feel management is very receptive to new ideas from employees. In fact, probably one of the biggest problems is that employees themselves are hesitant about the presentation of the new ideas. They're afraid the ideas may not be acceptable or they're a little disturbed about presenting them. And I think that if they appreciated how anxious industry as a whole is to have new ideas and new approaches and new techniques, that there would be a lot more suggestions from employees and it would be very gratifying to management and the employees. Well, I think that the fact that, uh, modern business management has interested itself in suggestion plans, formal suggestion plans, to the extent that it has in the last few years, as an example of its interest in the subject. Now, uh, it's, uh, also interested, uh, in, uh, promoting the idea of suggestions through their various training programs that, uh, are related to preparing supervisors for their job. I must, uh, report an interesting, uh, parallel here between, uh, the interest of the management group and some of the evidence that we've found from interviewing employees rather systematically. Particularly in large organizations, you, uh, frequently find this kind of phenomena operating. At the top, there's a high degree of receptivity for any ideas that might come from anywhere. And then at the bottom, when you talk individually to the employees, you discover that, that not all of them are sure that their ideas are being judged fairly. Of course, one thing you must appreciate is that, unfortunately, many ideas that are presented are not suitable for management to accept. Either they are not economic, either the timing is wrong for them, or they don't fit in with company policy. And unfortunately, many employees may be very disappointed if their ideas are not used. On the other hand, I feel industry has a definite obligation that even though the ideas are not used, they should assure the employee that such ideas and suggestions are appreciated. Of course, I think you can never completely overcome the dilution of ideas that are being sent up to top management, and the insulation that they have to overcome at the intermediate level. And at the same time, I think you can never completely satisfy the person who has made a suggestion or presented an idea, which to him seems sound and proper, but which has not been accepted for the moment for good reasons. Wouldn't it be advisable, Len, to see that there is a direct line of communication between the person with the ideas and someone in top management to cut out the red tape? It's been my own experience that the people at the top are, as Van Dusen said before, are much more receptive than the people in the middle or lower level. I think the value of suggestion plans is in its ability to overcome this problem which Kurtman raises. I think you still have a very real problem, though, because the middle man is there, and his status means something to the employee. And until the employee gets the feeling that he is being understood, not necessarily agreed with when he offers a suggestion, he still is not going to be the kind of employee full of ideas that you want to have around. Van Dusen, I agree with you fully on that, and I think that, again, is top management's obligation to educate the people that are representing them at that specific level that they are interested in having employee suggestions handled, and above all, assure the employees that these suggestions are appreciated, because otherwise this wealth of ideas is going to dry up. Even when they're inappropriate? Definitely. Of course, I agree, too, but to completely overcome it is like looking for a minor miracle with all of the forces of human nature operating on the earth. And it's partly overcome by the use of formal suggestion plans, and it's more completely overcome by effective supervisory training, which relieves supervisors of the pressures of personal prestige that account for it in part. Now, you've referred a number of times to these formal suggestion plans, North. What are they? Can you give me an example of one? Well, we've had a formal suggestion plan in operation for over 25 years, and the savings that result from it in improved methods and ideas which have been accepted, amounts to hundreds of thousands of dollars in the course of a year's time. How does it work? It works by any employer in the organization, regardless of what his position may be. He is always privileged and is encouraged to write his idea out. It's then reviewed by a suggestion committee at the local organization, and then passed on to the central suggestion committee, where it's reviewed. And ideas that are accepted are rewarded in dollars, awards, and they're also rewarded in terms of bringing recognition to the individual as a candidate for promotion to jobs of greater responsibility. I have one example that just recently came to my attention of an engineer at our Clinton, Iowa, Dairy and Poultry Plant, who submitted an idea to improve the automatic poultry picking machine. This idea received in the monthly award contest a portable radio. It received also $1,193 in monetary awards, and it was selected at the end of the year in a special suggestion contest as the best idea for originality, ingenuity, and value that year. And this man received a two-door Chevrolet 1949 sedan. North, I think that's a wonderful plan and one that obviously many industries are following, and it's very welcome all the way through industry. But it is not only a question of employees receiving monetary awards, as we all know. Equally important to the employee is the prestige, the recognition factors for making suggestions, even though the suggestions aren't used. And as long as they have recognition and appreciation from their associates, that's mighty and important and can create many new ideas. I think the opportunity to participate in working out solutions to problems that come up give two advantages particularly. One to the supervisor who, by allowing the employee to share in the development of the solution of a problem, frequently discovers for the first time what a wealth of ideas is at the command of a fellow who is a subordinate to him. And equally important is the discovery by the employee what terrific problems the supervisor faces. Now, when they can pool their ideas, you're just bound to have a better organization. Of course, Allsdorf has been making a point here which I think should not be overlooked, and that is the prestige value of an idea rather than the monetary value of it. And wherever it can be given publicity, either in house organs or employee magazines or on bulletin boards or in special recognition fashion, so that that employee is being held up to the rest of the people in his group as someone who has achieved something, contributed to the business, it's important. Even a simple acknowledgement of an idea, whether it's been acceptable or not, does a lot for employee morale. It makes the employee feel like he's part of a team rather than working alone. I know in our organization, if an idea is sent in through the regular channels, whether it's accepted or not, a letter of appreciation is sent to the center and he is told if the idea has not been acceptable, exactly why. I believe that Cartman's idea of building up this sense of belonging to a team is extremely important because that is one of the most important things apparently to contribute to the overall feeling of security to the employee, and I'm convinced that security isn't entirely based on how much take-home pay he gets. I think that is very, very true, and I think it's very heartwarming to realize how much everyone is recognizing the importance of suggestions from employee and giving them a feeling of security. That's becoming increasingly recognized by everyone as being very basic. Well, now we've been talking here about the methods that management can employ in nurturing ideas on the job and developing persons with ideas. We've, North has referred to the formal suggestion devices, contests, prizes and awards, and we've got other comments along that line. What kind of a relationship between employer and employee is conducive to the production of ideas? Well, I think, McBurney, that the lines of communications at all levels have just got to be sensitive to the needs that all people have. I think we all are really after an honest-to-goodness inside feeling that everything is going along all right. I'm being respected as an individual with a contribution to make, and I think we like to feel that we're fairly adequate, that is that we are worthwhile. And if everybody, all the way down through the levels of management and all levels of supervision, can kind of keep that in mind, that the fellow who's working for them is susceptible to those needs just as he is, I think that you begin to have a sensitivity which provides an atmosphere for ideas to flow. Van Dusen, you have had a lot of exposure to industries large and small. Don't you feel that there is an increasing recognition of the importance of that? I certainly do, and of course you get a lot of evidence of that recognition through the training programs that are devised to help the middle man. That is the fellow who wants to do a good job, but by long, well-established habits hasn't been behaving always in such a way that it makes it easy for his employees to channel ideas through him on up the ladder. Who is this middle man that you're talking about? I'm thinking about the first-line supervisor, who is by virtue of his position, after all, the employees are dependent upon the judgments and the decisions of the supervisor, and the employee knows that he's got to satisfy that supervisor if he's going to progress in that outfit. Of course, Van Dusen, I can't help but come back to the feeling that in many cases there's hesitancy on the part of employees talking to their supervisor. The thing that I'm particularly interested in is what can you do to tear down that hesitancy? I think the thing to do there is let the employees know that some member of the top management is accessible at all times, that if he wants to get in to see him, he can with his ideas. I think more important than letting him know that his ideas are acceptable and that they will be given recognition by top management, is the force of example of this first-line supervisor that he really wants them. I agree with that, Norris, Will Hartley. And that he will communicate these ideas to the top level. I think that's the answer, and it's an educational program. I think the big problem that we face in business today is realizing the importance that everybody places upon everything that he sees and hears, in terms of what's that got to do with me? And if we can get the worker at the manual skill level to see the importance of an idea in terms of what it's got to do with him, if we can get the first-line supervisor to realize the importance of what that's got to do with me, and then so on up the line, the problem of generating ideas and getting them into full expression... And by the same token, Mr. North, you would want top management to understand the little fellow down on the job, and what are his needs and his desires and his ambitions and his wishes and his goals. Right, but he's got to look at him in terms of his position and the impacts in his life as against where he sits at this level. The selling process then might amount to something like this, North. If I'm an employee and I have to convince my first-line supervisor of an idea that I have, maybe a smart way for me to go about it is to couch my suggestion in such terms that my first-line supervisor will see how he, too, might profit from the idea, as well as myself and the organization. You might call that persuasion strategy. Well, I would call that basic selling, and that is very basic in the presentation of any idea. One of the things that I regret is that so often my colleagues, and I, too, stress how much management should be doing to create better atmosphere for the flow of ideas. I personally would like to plug a little while about how much can the employee do himself in selling these ideas in the reverse direction? Well, I think that's a very important point, Van Dusen, because if the employees will present to their supervisors or to whatever channel their suggestion should flow in the idea properly, and not as a basic selfish approach, but an overall problem for a company, there would be a wonderful reception and better ideas would be created. Isn't it a matter then of making the employees understand that anything that benefits the company benefits everybody all along the line? And that any ideas from any of the employees will therefore benefit the whole organization? Well, isn't that the theme of all modern communications programs, that an informed employee is a better employee, and he's in a better position to contribute to the welfare of the business? I'm wondering how far you men would go in admitting employees to participation in the decision-making processes of a company. What would you say to that, Allsdart? I think that employees unquestionably are involved in policy and decisions of a company, not directly by their spoken word, but in their influence on the decisions of management, because no management can make company decisions or policy without his prime consideration being the interest of his employees, as well as the welfare of the company, and hence the employee is always involved in companies' decision-making plans and policies. It seems to me where the participation is particularly important is in the help that management gets in the accumulation of the pertinent facts that should be considered in the decision-making. Isn't the whole idea of selling your ideas on the job an admission that employees should participate in decision-making, but the question is not one of whether they make decisions, but rather whether they contribute to decision-making? I think that's right, North, and unquestionably, employees contribute to all major decisions of a company. Well, now, for many of our listeners, the final question probably comes down to this. What should an employee do to make good on the job? What advice do you have to offer on that, Van Dusen? Well, I think it may boil down to a sort of an attitude of problem-solving. I think it would be helpful if he first was sure just what it was he wanted to accomplish, and then if he understood what kinds of things were operating in the situation that kept him from getting his needs satisfied, and was equally sensitive to all the advantages that he has to work with, that he could then begin to try out possible solutions, particularly if he remains sensitive of the possible consequences of each alternative he might like to suggest. And wouldn't you suggest that the ideas that he seeks should be sought first on the level of his own job? That's right, but of course I must admit that I believe that he can do a lot to create that desire for someone wanting to ask him what for an idea. What advice would you offer, Altsdorf? Well, I believe first of all the employee should do the specific job that he is employed in and do it well. And then at the same time have imagination to look for new ideas, for improvement of the techniques, the things that he is exposed to, and then not be hesitant, above all, to communicate his suggestions to the proper people so that they can be acted upon. What would you say to that question, North? Well, I would say find a job that interests you, then be sure that that job will come closer to satisfying the demands that you are making on life over and beyond the paycheck which you take home at the end of the week. And if those two standards are met, then the question of ideas that will contribute to the improvement of that job will flow much easier than if they are under the pressures of a job that you don't like. What would you say to that question, Cartman? I think an employee should look at his job as more than just the job he is doing, but as part of the whole. He should see exactly how he fits into the organization. And in that way he can probably develop more ideas and do a better job, not only for himself but for the company. Well, in conclusion, gentlemen, I would emphasize what I hope has been clear throughout this program. Selling ideas on the job calls for a healthy reciprocity from employee and employer. The traffic on this street that we've been talking about most certainly should run both ways. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Selling Your Ideas on the Job. This is the second time the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand has cooperated with the editors of Coronet Magazine in presenting a program of interest to the individual worker. Our initial broadcast dealt with the problem of securing the right job and was called Are You Looking For a Job or A Better Job? A copy of either of these broadcasts can be secured by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Better yet, why not write for copies of both programs? Send only 20 cents to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again is the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were James Alsdorf, president of the Cori Corporation, Ben Cartman, associate editor of Coronet, Harold F. North, manager, industrial relations department, Swift and Company, and Albert C. Van Dusen, associate professor of psychology, Northwestern University, and head of the adult counseling program at University College. Today's program was transcribed. Next week, the reviewing stand discusses the question, is mercy killing justifiable? This problem has been brought to the attention of the American public in the recent so-called mercy death case involving Dr. Herman N. Sander, a Manchester, New Hampshire physician. Our guests will be Rabbi Lewis Vinstock from the Temple Sholem in Chicago, Freddie Inbo, professor of law in the School of Law at Northwestern University, and Dr. Richard H. Young, dean of the medical school at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for Is Mercy Killing Justifiable? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. ...every day in their homes. Every month, there will be a new booklet by a new author. And the February... ...of the February... ...of the February... ...of the Lord will abide with you and grant you His blessing.aran XV ...are any time for the lucky company ...not revelations we all call to Actiona öffentliche... ... care and the power of it... ... starting on Sunday. ... increasingly recovering from Al Mb tiden. ...Christophilia for the which completed go up very quickly on those matices, ...and that wherein you have the best of us should be saved forth, ... купulo be held upon us... ...and that you viaje from their friends, ...be Het Achilles, ... providing theoretical business Under venerity,
