Governor Dewey is the speaker on this, the 22nd, in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief Executive of the State of New York, Governor Thomas E. Dewey. Good evening. This is an appeal to you to help save your own life and the lives of your family. They are in danger, real and possibly immediate danger. War and armed aggressions are raging in four nations right this minute. Every one of them started, financed, and conducted by Russian agents or satellites with the aid of Russian money and Russian arms. War struck like lightning in Korea, as you remember, where Americans are fighting and dying with the youth of other countries in defense of freedom today. The French are fighting a bitter jungle war against communist invaders in Indochina. The British are fighting a bitter war against communist invaders and insurrectionists in Malaya. The Philippine government is fighting large and well-organized bands of communist insurrectionists and assassins called the Hucks. Nobody knows whether it will break out next in Iran, in Yugoslavia, in Berlin, or where. But one thing is sure. It will break out next wherever the 14 evil men in Moscow decide to have it break out. And it could start with all-out total war and atom bombing of New York today, next month, or next year. You, the people of New York, and the people of our country, can help prevent it. You can help prevent our quick demoralization and defeat if it should start. If you will do your ordinary duties as citizens. If we are strong enough and well enough prepared, it is less likely to happen. We are not yet strong enough or well enough prepared in the nation. And our citizens, I am sorry to say, are not doing their job. The longer we remain unprepared, the greater the chance that Stalin will decide to strike. If an atom bomb fell in your community tonight, what would happen? Well, there'd be an explosion equal to at least 20,000 tons of TNT. Death, destruction, fire, sheer chaos, and horror would cover a large area. 50,000 to 100,000 people would be killed with an equal number injured and desperately needing instant attention. There would be the dead to be removed and buried. Hundreds of thousands of homeless and hungry needing immediate help. Now, this is no idle nightmare. It actually happened when the first atom bomb fell on Hiroshima. It happened once again at Nagasaki and the whole Japanese empire surrendered. Japan was not prepared for its home defense. Now, do you know what your job would be? Either to save your own life or the lives of the members of your family or your neighbors? Do you know what to do? Do you think the government could save you? Either the federal or the state or the local government? Obviously, it couldn't. The government is people. We are the government. Every one of us. The Army, the Navy, and the Air Force would be engaged in the monumental task of meeting the enemy all over the world. Civil defense here at home is everybody's job. At best, the Air Force expects to be able to intercept only about 30% of enemy bombers. That means that 70% would get through. How many bombs could we stand? I don't know. Nobody knows. But I do know this. Whatever happens, we have to stay on our jobs. The factories and offices must be running the next morning. They have to be running or the nation collapses. They have to be running or the men in the armed services would soon run out of food, guns, and ammunition. Are we prepared for such an emergency? I regret to say that while your state government is now ready, no community in the state is fully prepared, and this job has to be done right in the community where you live. Let me recall to your mind what happens under bombing. The United States Strategic Bombing Survey, conducted after the war in Germany, reveals some very startling facts. For one example, 2,800 tons of bombs were dropped on the city of Augsburg. That's about one-seventh of the strength of a single old-fashioned atom bomb, not the new and tremendously more powerful type of bomb. But that comparatively tiny bombing damaged the industry of Augsburg so badly that it took 11 months to repair it. A mere 4,200 tons of bombs were dropped on the iron and steel industries of Dortmund, which knocked them out for 11 months. In a 10-day period of time, 8,800 tons of bombs were dropped on the German city of Hamburg. That's less than half of one atom bomb. But the city was practically destroyed. 87,000 people were killed or seriously injured, and 275,000 dwellings were destroyed or made useless. What would happen in this country if not one quarter or a half of an atom bomb, but just one whole old-fashioned atom bomb, not a new, really powerful one, were dropped on every one of our cities? I don't need to paint that picture to you. What I'm urging you to do, what I'm asking you, the people of New York State, to do, is to recognize that we're living in a period of war, of threats of war and desperate crisis. Our freedom, our very existence, is under constant, severe, and imminent threat. Under those conditions, intelligent and patriotic people prepare themselves. They are not doing that today. Your state government has done its job. The state public works department has inventoried, and it sounds a little irrelevant, but it's terribly important. We've inventoried every bulldozer and piece of machinery in the state to clear away rubble, to knock down adjoining buildings to save the injured and remove the dead, and to clear streets. The state public service department has worked with the railroads and utility companies who've done a marvelous job on the problem of preparing to maintain transport and gas, electric, light, telephone, and all the other services that are so essential. Our division of safety has worked with the fire departments of the state, and I'm happy to say that they are in general state of preparedness. They are highly trained, and a disaster is the business of firemen, as you know. We've prepared and distributed more than three million copies of the booklet You and the Atom Bomb, and yet a recent survey in the state shows that most of our people have not taken the trouble to learn the simple facts of self-preservation. The regular police forces are generally ready, and they'd give a good account of themselves. But they're hopelessly inadequate in number. We would need five times as many volunteers, men enrolled as auxiliary police, and they aren't enrolled. The state health department has launched an emergency blood program, under which 238 blood banks are being prepared for action. The doctors and nurses have responded wonderfully to the state training programs, and in most sections of the state, more than two-thirds of them have accepted volunteer training in civil defense. But every doctor needs 42 voluntary helpers. We have a few hundred throughout the whole state, compared to the tens of thousands we actually need. That, again, is where your help is urgently needed. Last year, we bought an emergency reserve of a half million dollars worth of drugs and medical supplies. But we found that amount to be just a drop in the bucket. We find that if you emptied the drugs and medical supplies out of every hospital and drugstore in the state of New York, in order to take care of the injured from one bomb, you still would not have a tenth of what you'd need. So this year, I asked the legislature for 12 million dollars to buy and stockpile medical supplies for the benefit of all the communities in the state. Many of the supplies are perishable, so we have them stored in various state institutions where a constant turnover keeps them fresh and ready to be brought to the scene of any disaster. It's a shocking thing that no other state in the Union as far as I know has yet bought any medical supplies and the Congress has voted only 20 million dollars for the entire United States. That's not much more than we're spending for the state of New York alone. Our Social Welfare Department has planned for the reception of a million homeless people in communities throughout the state. It's planned for their housing and feeding and clothing. But no agency with its normal peacetime staff can handle that problem alone. It needs tens of thousands of trained volunteers ready to act. Only a handful of volunteers have signed up so far. Now to turn to another more serious aspect even. In a recent exercise, one of our most important communities reported that it had no civil defense preparation at all except the fire department. In other words, for a whole year, the laws of the state and the instructions of the Civil Defense Commission have been ignored. More than half of the cities and counties have shown little or no action. Civil defense is a job still to be done, but they say they'll do it when there's time, when there's the money, or when there is immediate danger, as if they knew. Two weeks ago, the statewide Civil Defense Council gave these cities and counties a solemn warning. They don't know, we don't know, when danger will strike. We cannot wait. They were warned that within 60 days they must at least make their plans. Even then they won't be ready. Time is running out, and the time for excuses and apologies is over. Now there is not the slightest reason for hysteria or fright, but there is the most desperate and compelling reason for sane and intelligent preparation for a disaster which a ruthless enemy might bring on us at any hour of the day or night. When the American people are aroused, they can accomplish almost anything. In the face of danger, they've never been known to shirk. It's imperative to realize that we do face danger and prepare to meet it now. We have scarcely 100,000 volunteers in civil defense throughout this state today. We need a million. That is your job. We mustn't wait for thousands of lives to be lost unnecessarily before we start preparing. The lives of the men who died at Pearl Harbor were lost in vain unless we have learned the lesson that it can happen here. The men who are dying in Korea are dying in vain. If we have not learned the lesson that anything can happen and that it's our solemn duty to be ready, remember, only you can protect yourselves. If total war comes, everybody, everywhere will be in the front lines. Only the people at home can keep the home front running. If the enemy knows that wherever and whatever terror he may wreck upon us, we would be prepared, calm and steady. He'll know that he can't knock us out in any series of swift attacks, however powerful they might be. I earnestly hope that every one of the people of New York will make it his job to see that we are well prepared at home. That means insisting on good local civil defense, not just newspaper headlines or air raid shelter signs. It means demanding total organization of every service, whether it's medical or health or fire or police or warden. It means volunteering for whatever you can do best. It means giving a few hours of your own time to learning your job, whatever it is. If we are ready enough, we may hope that the attack will never come. I would rather be called a fool for crying wolf against a disaster that never happened than a traitor for failing to be ready for what many people think is going to happen. I do hope the people of New York will share that view. I beg each of you to do your part in getting ready. Then the attack is less likely to occur and we can win through for freedom if ever the challenge comes. Thank you, Governor Thomas E. Dewey. Next week on Plan for Survival, our topic will be warden's service. We'll talk about the men and women in your neighborhood whose job it is to work directly with you in matters of civil defense. Until then, this is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. Thank you.