And because I have learned to love him so much, realize his great value to the city of New York, I advised him yesterday that as soon as he was through with his term of office here, I would extend him an invitation to come out and become the mayor of the greatest little city in the world, the city of Uniontown, Pennsylvania. It is a real honor for me to present to you now a genial Irishman, a good legionnaire, an outstanding American, a great host, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. Commander, Excellency the Governor, distinguished guests, fellow legionnaires, my purpose in coming here this afternoon is not to make a long speech to you that might interfere with the seriousness of your deliberation. I come as the mayor of New York City to give you the welcome of our city in this, your 29th convention. Ladies and gentlemen, when you last came to New York City, it was 1937. At that time, your minds were going backward to the First World War and to the problems that confronted not only the veteran, but confronted the entire nation following the First World War. Ten years later, you are here today. Now, you have new problems because now you have behind you a second world war. There will be, of course, in the course of this convention, serious discussions on the many problems that face the legionnaire, that face the veteran, that face the people of the nation, and that faces the people of the entire world. You will, of course, have to consider that now, as never before, you must consider the necessity of preparedness for peace. That preparedness will take several forms, many of which we have been speaking and writing. But, ladies and gentlemen, preparedness for peace also must take into account that the veteran, the legionnaire, and the people of the people of the nation must find the answer to why the dollar that you spent in New York in 1937 doesn't buy 50 cents worth today. That's something you must consider because it affects all of us. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it would be presumptuous for me to indicate the cost of your deliberations. Enough for me to get back to my original purpose, to give you New York's heartiest of welcomes, to let you know that we are happy and honored to have you here, and of hope that out of your deliberations will come the answer to the questions that are worrying the people of this nation, and a worry that could be solved by the legion. God bless you in your work. God bless you in your work. We've just heard the mayor of the city of New York, himself a legionnaire, the honorable William O'Dwyer, make his formal address here at the legion convention. And now, Mr. Paul Griffith. Thank you. Thank you. We have to recognize that the creation and maintenance of peace is a long and toilsome undertaking. The tasks and objectives of war are clear and sharp, those of peace more dispersed and less precisely outlined. War focuses the attention and effort of all, the making of peace we are apt to leave to someone else. We must face the fact that history is not changed nor are new processes of world government perfected overnight. The United Nations to which the Legion has stated its devotion is a framework for negotiation, for discussion, for hard work. It is not now and never has been an instrument for miracles. It cannot in a day dissolve the freezing hatreds and the burning passions of centuries. That unpopular concept, balance of power, is still a factor even within its framework. And finally, the United Nations cannot by itself achieve the conditions of peace unless its members, all of its members, truly desire peace. There is nothing surprising, although much that is vexing, in the situation in which we find the world two years after the end of battle. Over a century ago, a similar period of a general struggle between nations was that of the Napoleonic Wars. And yet it was over four years after Waterloo, before Europe was able to work out a viable and practical peace. The war recently ended was on a far wider scale and shook civilization far more deeply. It should not be surprising that Reconstruction turns out to be difficult in proportion to the scale and depth of the conflict. Europe, and indeed the world, was stabilized in the 19th century by the strength of the British fleet and by the economic and political leadership of England. In this century, much of that leadership now devolves upon us, and we are finding it a lonely role. The industrial production of this country is estimated to be equal to that of the rest of the world combined. And it is also a fact that after feeding all of our own population American agriculture, to which 20% of the nation devotes its labor, exported in 1946 as much food as the total exports of the rest of the world put together. We need not and should not boast of these facts. Rather, should we derive from them a deep sense of humility and an even deeper sense of responsibility. Wealth and power which are not used in the service of mankind ultimately will perish. And it is for that reason, a composite of altruism and enlightened self-interest, that we desire to make our maximum contribution to the restoration of international stability. But if we are to use these assets, this great productive power and our resources of materials and men, to heal and restore the world, we must have the help of those that we are trying to help. We cannot do it effectively in an atmosphere of suspicion, of accusation, of doubt and cynicism. The United States has a fairly simple series of objectives in its international policy. Basically, they are, first, to get the treaties of peace with our late enemies written, so that they may go back to work and make their contribution to the restoration of normal trade and commerce. Second, to strengthen and develop the machinery of the United Nations. Third, through these two beginning steps, to secure for the world a stability which will enable men to address themselves to their daily tasks without the overhanging shadow and fear of war. To carry out this policy, as your commander has said and as Senator Martin has stressed again, it is a matter of first importance that the military power of the United States be kept vigorous, modern and capable of swift mobilization. Since your last national convention, the Congress on the initiative of the President of the United States and following in broad principle the outlines of the policy laid down by this legion last year, the Congress has taken a decisive step in that direction. I refer to the National Security Act of 1947, passed by Congress and signed on July 26th by President Trubin. This public law, otherwise known as the Unification Act, is of such vital interest to each and every member of this legion that I take advantage of this opportunity to outline its essential features. They are, one, the creation of the Office of Secretary of Defense, two, establishment of a Department of the Air Force and the creation of the Office of Secretary of the Air Force, three, establishment by the Congress of the principle that the function of the new Secretary of Defense shall be along broad lines of policymaking and that he shall not go into the administrative detail or the management of the separate departments. In other words, the War and Navy departments retain their autonomy and the Air Forces achieve it. Four, legalization of the concept of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the creation of a Joint Staff, limited in number, to serve the Joint Chiefs. Five, creation of a National Security Council to comprise the following persons, the President of the United States, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force, plus the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board with such other Cabinet members as the President may deem advisable. And I would add to that also the Chairman of the Munitions Board of the Research and Development Board. Six, establishment of the National Security Resources Board, whose name in general is descriptive of its functions. This board will make an inventory of our natural resources, establish reserves of strategic and critical materials, make plans for the effective use of manpower and for the stabilization of civilian economy in wartime. In brief, it will have many of the powers originally allocated to the War Production Board in March of 1942, and it will have a Chairman appointed from civilian life, who incidentally is a member of this legion. Seven, establishment of a Munitions Board. The principal function of this body will be in the field of planning for the military services, a function to which Senator Martin referred and which is so fundamental and vital to any vigorous and lively scheme for national defense. It will have no authority over our civilian economy. It will be charged with the coordination of the procurement program of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, with the integration of their production and distribution programs, with the standardization of materials and nomenclatures, and with the allocation of procurement responsibility, where that can be most effectively and economically performed. That Chairman will also be appointed from civilian life. Eight, three other elements are provided by the Act. The Research and Development Board, which in the field of science is of such vital interest and concern in this modern age of the foreshortening of time and space. That board is essentially a continuation of the present Joint Research and Development Board, headed by Dr. Vanover Bush, who I hope will continue in that post. There will be also a Central Intelligence Agency, and finally a War Council, which will be the principal advisory body to the Secretary of Defense on military matters and provides the link or the buckle between the civilian and the military aspects of our national planning for defense. That is the blueprint of the new law for the unification of our national defense, for the creation, for the first time since 1798, as President Truman has expressed it, of a national military policy. There is the blueprint and the charter, but it is only a blueprint, and it has still to be implemented in terms of human work and decision. Its success will depend upon what is fundamental to the success of any organization or any operation, be it military, governmental, or civilian, and that is teamwork. That teamwork cannot be forced. It must come out of the heart as well as the head. It cannot come by directives only. It must flow from the loyal determination of the military and civilian personnel who will comprise it. I'm happy to say that it starts on the civilian side with a continuation of the same happy relationship which existed between that great American and gallant soldier, Robert P. Patterson, and myself during the war. We shall have in his successor, Kenneth Royal, the Secretary of War, in John Sullivan, whom you all know, Secretary of the Navy, and in Stuart Symington, the Secretary of the Air Forces, a group of men who are concerned not with personal ambition, but with one thing and one thing only, that which will produce at the lowest possible cost to the public the most effective military protection for the United States. On the military side, we have the same guarantees of cooperation. The positions of Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, and of the Commanding General of the Air Forces are held by men whose interest is first the defense and the security of our country and second of their service. Dwight Eisenhower, Chester Nimitz, and Tui Spots are men who live and think and act in the belief that teamwork will always be more effective than individual brilliance. I don't mean to infer that all will be harmony and complete accord. That will not be the case and should not be because sound decisions are arrived at by discussion and not by unilateral genius. I've yet to see success for the latter in any field in which I have participated, whether it be business, war, or government. And I'm deeply suspicious of people who think that they are geniuses. What is important is that decisions once arrived at after canvassed by many minds and after exhaustive consideration of all alternatives be carried out with vigor. So far as my own approach is concerned, I propose to depend upon the process of orderly evolution and not of revolution to attain the objectives stated in the law. The real integration of the various elements in our national security will take many months, if not years, of accomplishment. There will be no miracles or immediate or sensational economies in the process. Like all other human effort, those results will be the product of hard and continuous work, of accommodation between many points of view, and of a thorough and continuous study of every aspect of what we need to wage war. The purpose of the unification law is not to start this country on the dangerous and fatal road to conquest. The United States wants no additional territory, no domination of other people, either of their persons or of their ideas. It desires no monopoly of the trade routes, the raw materials, or the commerce of the world. It wants one thing and one thing only, and that is a just and durable peace. It invites the collaboration and the help of all those in the world who truly want peace in that effort. The National Security Act of 1947 is consistent with that statement. Some have chosen to regard it as a measure calculated primarily to improve our military organization, and that is true so far as it goes. But its purpose transcends and transquately transcends this limited goal. The overriding purpose of the National Security Act of 1947 is to provide this nation with a balanced organization which, being ever alert, ready and prepared in the field of military policy, correlated with and subordinate to our foreign policy, will make for the most effective force for the maintenance of peace in our own and, I dare say, in the world's history. Basically, it is a peace measure. But if, in spite of our efforts and desires, we should again become involved in war, we will have an organization and plans ready to marshal the full power of our human, material, and spiritual resources in defense of our security. These, then, are the dual goals of the Act. First and primarily, the maintenance of peace, and second, the prompt and effective protection of our own national security. This law gives the pattern for a policy of defense such as the country has lacked since 1798. There is one more brick necessary, however, in that structure before our national military posture to which Secretary Marshall referred in his testimony before the Senate becomes complete, and that is universal military training. The American Legion has consistently stated its approval of this concept for almost three decades. Today, it is more important than ever that the nation realize the importance and necessity of such a step. It is a step that will do much to lend conviction and meaning to the work of our Secretary of State. It will make clear to the world that the United States is determined to back up its policy by action, and in my own opinion, it will have collateral benefits to the youth of our country which in themselves should commend it to every thoughtful citizen. and the future of our country. Speaking on behalf of the military establishment, I record my gratitude to the American Legion for the continuing understanding and support which it has given to the services. It has been a bulwark and a rock around which during the years when indifference to our defense and to our military policy seemed to threaten our existence, the forces of patriotism and of patriots could rally. I am mindful more than ever before as a result of my work of the last seven years of how great your contribution has been. My congratulations to your present commander, Paul Griffith, for his untiring efforts and his unflagging zeal during the past year. and to your new leader, whoever he may be, my best wishes and may God bless his efforts and all of you in the achievement of the high aims of the American Legion. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Secretary Forrestal. We are very happy to have had you with us here today. As the first Secretary of National Defense, we realize the important position you will hold in the years to come in the preservation of America and American ideals. And we salute you as a great American and as an outstanding citizen and we are honored by your presence here today. Mr. Paul Griffith is now posing for a moment with Secretary Forrestal and in just a moment he'll make a few concluding remarks and the broadcast from Madison Square Garden of the National Convention of the American Legion will be concluded for the day. We might add at this time as good as any that we'll stay with the American Legion for all the time that they are in New York joining them tomorrow and joining them tomorrow at about noon at the 71st Regiment Armory for the proceedings there. In the meantime now we're just waiting for the cameramen to have their innings while Mr. Griffith is photographed with Secretary Forrestal and then Mr. Griffith will have some important announcements to make which we ask you to be sure and listen to. It'll follow in just a moment. Here's Mr. Griffith back again. I'd like to recognize at this time Vice Commander Buckner from Michigan. Commander Griffith the chair recognizes the outgoing commander of the Department of Pennsylvania Comrade Clyde Rankin. Thank you Commander. We of Pennsylvania one year ago offered to the National Organization of the American Legion first of all a true Legionnaire and a man that he has given to you one year of service in the greatest veteran organization the world has ever seen an unselfish service in an opinion of Pennsylvania the greatest national commander the American Legion has ever had. It is my privilege National Commander Paul and Mrs. Griffith because this is a dual presentation Even yet there's some greetings and it's taking a little time a little time now we're just waiting for prodigal we might say the cameramen are having their innings and it's very important of course that we get a record of this picture because it's very interesting indeed to refer back to this day in August 1947 when Mr. Paul Griffith was the guest of the mayor and the commanders of the American Legion here in the Waldorf it's these pictures that make the article so interesting the deputy mayor Mr. Bennett and other members of the board of estimate are gathering around now and we're just waiting until they decide what the next procedure is they're getting the ladies together now so that they'll figure in the pictures as well after all that's very important and now Mr. Whalen Mr. Whalen ladies and gentlemen may we have your attention for a moment ladies and gentlemen may we have your attention for a moment the Star Spangled Banner will be rendered by the police glee club oh say can you see by the dawn's early light what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight all the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming and the rocket's red glare the bombs bursting in air gave proof through the night that the flag was still there oh say the star-spangled banner yet wave o'er the land of the free and the home of the brave Mr. Whalen no that is not Mr. Whalen a little attention please shh yes that is Mr. Whalen go ahead and the wind and the peace will be taking trees through the land is up to you when you're Spirit, never fear if you'll see it through. Hearts can inspire the hearts with their fire. For the strong obey, when the strong hand shows them the way. It beats the men who are slough, hardened men, who will fight for the right they adore. Start people with ten who are stout, hardened men, and I'll soon give you ten thousand more. Oh, shoulder to shoulder, and bolder and bolder, we go as they go to the fore. Then there's nothing in the world can hold on our own plan. Then, stout-hearted men, we'll stick together, man to man. Give peace to men who are stout, hardened men, who will fight for the right they adore. Start people with ten who are stout, hardened men, and I'll soon give you ten thousand more. Shoulder to shoulder, and bolder and bolder, we go as they go to the fore. Then there's nothing in the world can hold on our own plan. Wend the hearted men, and stick together, man to man. And now, Mr. Whelan. Ladies and gentlemen, may we have your attention for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, may we have your attention for a moment. It gives me great pleasure to present New York City's number one, legionnaire, General William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan. Manner Griffith. Manner Pearl. Our distinguished visitor from Canada, Viscount General Alexander. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches here will be short, just to say to you, how happy New York City is to have you here. And how anxious we are that your visit will be worthwhile from the standpoint of the Legion, and a pleasant one. And so, again, welcome to New York City. Thank you. Thank you. You know, I'm not going to let the mayor get away with that one. His job is to introduce the national commander, Mr. Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, as if you didn't know the national commander, Paul Griffiths. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are all very happy at the outlook of this, our 29th annual national convention. We are certain that here in New York we are going to enjoy once again. Once again. I propose you may that I like best. One is that someday I might be the mayor of Uniontown, Pennsylvania, and get away from some of the things I have to go through in New York, or the other one which I like best and let you come back as often as you can. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have great pleasure and privilege to present to you the president of the auxiliary, Mrs. Dorothy Pearl. Mr. Mayor.