Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Today Northwestern University concludes its Centennial celebration, marking 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The program commemorating Founders Day and the conclusion of the Centennial will be broadcast by WGM Chicago at 3 o'clock Central Standard Time and will be heard over most of these Mutual Stations tonight at 10 o'clock Central Standard Time. Featured speaker will be Colonel Robert R. McCormick, editor and publisher of the Chicago Tribune. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, How should we educate for the future? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around some of the more important educational problems which our universities and colleges will face in the years ahead. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are three of 100 distinguished men and women honored by Northwestern University last December, honored for outstanding service to the community and the nation. Dr. Henry T. Heald, President of the Illinois Institute of Technology and Chancellor-elect of New York University. May I say, Dr. Heald, we're very sorry to have you leave Chicago to go to New York. We can join you in that. I'll say amen. Thank you very much. Well, you have already heard the voices of Lewis L. Mann, Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai Temple and professorial lecture in the Department of Oriental Languages at the University of Chicago, and Guy E. Reed, Executive Vice President of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank and President of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry. Today, Northwestern University concludes its year-long centennial celebration. On this occasion in particular, we are trying to look ahead. We have invited our guests to speak to the question, how should we educate for the future? And what does this term, education, mean? What does it mean to you, Rabbi? That's not an easy question, but I'll do the best I can. I sometimes think an education is like a vaccination. Sometimes it takes, and sometimes it doesn't take. And when it does take, it can only give a person two things. First, perspective, and a sense of proportion, so that the last person you meet isn't the most charming, and the last book you read isn't the greatest of all books. And secondly, a methodology of approach, so that one can tackle a new problem and find its content with principles rather than prejudices. Those two, sir, are education. Do you accept those concepts, Dr. Heal? Yes, those are very good, broad concepts of the objectives of education. It's much easier to accept them as concepts than it is to determine the individual methods whereby you're going to attain them. Which leads me to ask, of course, whether education that is now conceived, Rabbi, is adequate to modern needs. To what extent are we living up to the concepts you've just expressed? Well, I'd like to add a word on education before I say that, that education must give one a sense of appreciation, entering into the life of the beautiful and the good and the true. A sense of dedication, being a part of it, and a sense of consecration, so that each conscientious person must answer to himself, as well as to the community, what am I doing to bring the better life into being? Now, I would say, sir, that there's something wrong with our education. And I think I could put it best by stating some of the misconceptions as to what a man is. Because unless you know what he is, you don't know what you're going to do with him. Is it proper at this time? What are those misconceptions? Well, I would say the concept of the biological man, championed by Stengler, Gobineau, Watson, Houston, Stuart Chamberlain, and others, like Joseph Wood Crutch, who said that man is just a bit of slime creeping from one annihilation to the other, making man but a stone's throw from the stone age. Then there's the economic man, championed by people like Brooker and Leslie Paul and Prentiss and Major and Karl Marx, in which man is merely a commodity. Thirdly, there's a machine man that Kryle brought into existence, and Clarence Darrow popularized, and Bertram Russell was willing to speak about, and Hickel insisted upon, and Pavlov reduced to a conditioned reflex. And then there's a political man. Aristotle called him a political animal, and throughout the ages, the word animal was underscored. And it reached its, I won't say its height, sir, it reached its depth in Machiavelli, in which the state could do no wrong, even when it was murderous and immoral. Now, my answer to your question, all that was introduction, is that what we need for education and for all the other good things that are lacking in the world, is a concept of the spiritual man, man made in the image of God, man with inalienable rights, in which freedom is God-given and therefore should not be man-taken, not by strength and not by might, but by the Spirit of God, shall man prevail. Is there a basic conflict, I wonder, between the biological man and the mechanical man, to suggest two that Rabbi named, and the kind of spiritual man he pleads for? What do you think of that, Dr. Heer? I think there's no, well there's a difference between the concepts that's brought out by Rabbi and I, and I think there's no basic conflict between science and religion. Science deals with facts, it explores the mysteries of nature, but science doesn't have all of the answers. And science alone doesn't produce the complete human being. But can we admit into the realm of morals and ethics the kind of relativity which science teaches, and expect loyal devotion to personal and social values? Well I think there are certain moral and ethical values which are absolute and not relative. And those are, it's important that all of our people recognize those moral values. Now I have one other, one other question about Rabbi Mann's thesis, and I'd like to put this to you if I may, Mr. Reed. Is the human animal capable of the things Dr. Mann is talking about? Well it seems to me that in consideration of this subject, that is, it is essential to decide whether human nature is inherently individualistic or collectivist, whether enlightened human beings are essentially good or evil. I believe that man by his very nature is individualistic. It is a fact that no two persons even have the same fingerprints. And when you look at a cross section of people and see their talents and their interests, their skills and temperaments, what an amazing society could be built out of them. In fact what an amazing society has been built out of them. And while the art of living is a great cooperative enterprise between individuals, I think that our life can be likened to the great symphony, where the individual talents of the musicians are developed through self-discipline and hard work, and then blended by the great orchestra leader to express the genius and inspiration of the composer. It seems to me that man finds his greatest success in the pursuit of happiness, however, when he dedicates his talents and his energies to his fellow men and the common purposes of life. Because it seems to me that out of such dedication comes revelation and the real development of the spiritual man. I think that the illustration of the symphony you used just couldn't be improved upon. Because historically, from the time of Plato to the time of Royce, philosophers have discussed this question. Is the individual the abstraction and the community the reality? Or is the community the abstraction and the individual the reality? And there's a great pendulum swing from one end to the other, and neither extreme, as often happens, is correct. What we need is not the conflict between egoism and altruism, individual and the community, self-realization and self-abnegation, but we need self-realization, but for a social purpose. The highest and the greatest amount of individuality consonant with social good. In other words, a good community makes it easier to have good individuals. Good individuals make it easier to have a good community. And you do not have the vicious circle spiralingly downward, but you have the beneficent circle spiralingly upward. That's what I want education to do. Well, now, if I understand you, Dr. Mann, you are saying that education has done a pretty good job of developing the scientific man, the intellectual man, the biological man, the economic man, the political man, but has failed rather significantly in developing a man with spiritual commitments. Do you agree with that indictment, Dr. Heal? Well, I think there's a good deal of evidence today that in many cases we have failed in developing that kind of human being. Certainly we see things going on all about us in our private lives and in our governmental organizations, which seem to indicate that we haven't produced the kind of man that Dr. Mann was talking about here. This is partially a task of education. It's not a problem which can be wholly solved by education, at least on the college and university level. Now, here's a distinguished college educator that is in part throwing this problem back into your lap, Rabbi Mann. The thing I'd like to see... Maybe, maybe the churches and the synagogues have failed rather than the schools. I have no doubt about it. I... If you'd gotten... If you had made this symposium or a round table on that subject, I probably would have been the worst of the three in critic... criticizing more strenuously the churches and the synagogues than I do the universities. But what we're at here is that to produce the kind of a person that a college ought to help to produce, of course, other agencies also, is a man who is morally upright, who is intellectually honest and objective, who is socially of service to his fellow man, and who is spiritually attuned. That, I believe, is the ideal. It seems to me that perhaps a greater burden has been thrown upon the universities and colleges in the last few decades by the very tempo of life and the mechanization of life. You know, the standards of the race were handed down in the small communities and in the homes over many, many generations. Certainly that was true in America. And I'm confident that it must have been true everywhere, until we had our great cities that are rather inhuman in their approach and impersonal in their approach. And the great cities have begun to dominate our lives in this country. So you really have a new element that the universities and colleges must meet if they're to produce the leaders. Would it be fair to conclude from what you've just said, Mr. Reid, that the colleges and universities did a better job of producing these thoughtful spiritual leaders, let's say a century ago, than they're doing today? I think that the home and the communities really cooperated with them, in the sense that the burden is greater on the colleges today than it was in those days, when the home was in a position, the community was in a position, the church was in a position, to hand down these standards and principles, which were ingrained in the youngsters as they grew up. Somebody said the home was on wheels, and I'm afraid it is on wheels and so forth, and therefore one of the great anchors of our moral and spiritual life has been jeopardized. What often worries me, as I give thought to these things, and of course I should, is that we're the victims of paradoxes that are about as perilous as they are pathetic. And I'll name just a few of them, I could name many. Unless we develop morally and spiritually to the same degree that we have developed mechanically and technologically, we will have a creator of Frankenstein that will turn around and crush its maker. We've enabled people to live longer, and yet we kill them off faster, in war and in other ways, than ever before. We have, because of geographic propinquity made through the acceleration of transportation and communication, we have an economic internationalism that's all but inevitable, and we're harping back upon a political nationalism as misdirected as it is misconceived. And then, we now have more protection that is bankrupting us financially, incidentally, and less security than ever before. We have an improved means for an unimproved end. And I believe that that is a challenge that intellectual people, guided by moral passion, must come to grips with. Otherwise, we have a hard, hard road to travel. But why, why is education failing to deal with these paradoxes in this year of our Lord? Call on the educator, Professor Heald. Uh, are we failing to give students an adequate synthesis? Have our teachers lost their grip? To be sure, Mr. Reid tells us, the job is a bigger one. But what's the answer in education? Well, the job is a bigger one. Of course, we need, we shouldn't overlook the fact that the fields of knowledge have expanded greatly in the last hundred years. It was a relatively simple matter to produce a well-educated man a hundred years ago in any particular field compared to what it is today. And, uh, we have to some extent failed to produce synthesis. Although, I think that's a problem that is recognized pretty generally by many of our colleges and universities in attempting to come back and pull together the essential features from various different disciplines and fields of knowledge into a new and revised curriculum. Uh, education in the last analysis, of course, comes down to the teacher. And, uh, perhaps we, uh, don't have as many, uh, brilliant and dedicated teachers as we had years ago. And yet even that would be hard to prove because we have so many more teachers in total. Well, I have in mind the, uh, the results that you get from the inspirational teacher. We've all met them in our lives. And, uh, they, they give, uh, they give life meaning to us and, uh, a faith in, in people. And, uh, promote a dedication on the part of the student, uh, that is, is truly amazing. I mean, you can, you can look into the, uh, the pupils and their, their lives and, as they go through life and see what, uh, an amazing group, uh, can be produced. A group of leaders that can be produced by the, the force of inspiration, which certainly is the greatest force in the world. What I tried to get at so early in the game was that when we emphasize the biological man and the economic man and the machine man and the political man, and, uh, did not, uh, develop sufficiently the spiritual man, I meant that, uh, materialism has become a real force in the life of people. And Reinhold Niebuhr said something about that that I think hits a nail squarely on the head, and I'd love to quote it. Oh, sure. I would. Said Reinhold Niebuhr, living on a material level, men are bound to contend for physical prizes and use force in the contest with more and more deadly effect. Quotation closed. Now, the point there is that whenever we use force, and in materialism you must use force, it does not show who's wrong, it only shows who's strong. And therefore, in our materialistic concept of the universe, it means in cosmological terms, the chance and fortuity spell the meaning of life. And Mr. Reed magnificently said a few moments ago, a great teacher gave us a philosophy of life, meaning and content, even if he were teaching chemistry. Is that right, Mr. Reed? That's right. Well, now, in psychology, it gave us behaviorism, in which it said that a man had no mind and no conscience and no will, simply a biological response in his throat. In theology, materialism spells atheism, in ethics it spells nihilism, in morality it spells might makes right, in government it spells anarchy, in politics it spells totalitarianism, and in sociology it spells militarism. And there you have your vicious circle. If man is not a child of God, then he's only a stone's throw from the stone age. That's what's worrying me, sir. Well, now, if that's worrying you, and if I may be permitted to put together what I understood Mr. Reed to say, and what you just said, Rabbi, it adds up to this, that we have colleges and universities loaded with men who are committed to these very negative concepts which you just outlined so eloquently. Is that your conclusion? Well, it doesn't mean that I am pessimistic. I am most hopeful. I believe that man has stood so much, that having stood so much, he gives a promise of a great future, but that that will not come about by chance. Nothing comes about by chance. And that in our universities, we need what Nietzsche called in another way, a transvaluation of all values. And unless and until, we have what Mr. Reed emphasized so greatly, a meaningful interpretation of life, in which each has a job to do, in which none is ever exempt. And the overall, which means a spiritual dedication and consecration in a quest for the good, the true, and the beautiful. We begin at no beginning, and we end at no end. Now, let me say something in very simple words, if I may, gentlemen. Are you implying that I didn't? On my own. I've been a teacher in American colleges and universities for some 30 years. I know of hundreds and thousands of dedicated men and women who are just as committed to the high ideals that you have described as are the rabbis and the ministers and the priests. And I think that, by and large, in higher education, they're doing a magnificent job under terrific difficulties. That the kind of people that are fed into your colleges and universities lack the spiritual incentives and spiritual values, which they may have gotten in the home, in the school, in the church, in the synagogue in years gone by. But I speak out against an unqualified indictment of the teacher in America's colleges and universities. I speak in terms of great sympathy for him. He's a martyr. Most of them are, most of the teachers are underpaid. And they toil with all the conditions stacked against them when they haven't even enough money to buy the books they need. But isn't that even another measure of their devotion then, Rabbi, if I may say so? In some cases, yes. And in other cases, it attracts mediocre men who couldn't do anything in any other line. Help me out here. Well, I think I would disagree that college faculties in any large number have attracted mediocre people who could do nothing in any other line. My experience has been that almost every man who's ever been a member of my faculty could earn more money working in industry or working in some kind of commerce than he could in teaching. Certainly, many of them do stay in teaching because they believe in the principles that we've been talking about and believe in the importance of education. Let me pursue, if I may, I didn't mean to interrupt you, Dr. Heal, but let me pursue, if I may, another line of questioning concerning the teacher. Because I think education, after all, comes back pretty much to the teacher. That's what Mr. Reid said a minute ago. Do you think that the kind of preparation that the teacher is getting today, the traditional doctrine of philosophy, is sound preparation for teaching? Do you think the kind of emphasis that's placed on research and publication is sound in higher education? Well, I think as a prerequisite to their teaching, it should be perhaps one of the things of most importance. But I think personality is also fundamental. In industry, we test and endeavor to adapt people to their particular jobs through temperament and all these things. Perhaps there aren't enough people interested in the field where you can choose all from the personality standpoint. I think something could be done, of course, in our teachers' colleges to impress the teacher of the importance of developing personality and the spiritual values themselves. Perhaps that's one place where we could start with the type of teaching that we're talking about. I like what Mr. Reid said. In the last analysis, just supplementing what you said, not adding to it, the thing we call education in the last analysis is something that's caught rather than taught. It's an attitude toward life. It's a philosophy of life. It's an interpretation. I'll give you an example. I had a chemistry teacher in one of the colleges that I attended that taught chemistry. But his personality and his character were so sterling, I like to call it contagious, that I learned more ethics from that professor of chemistry than I learned from my ethics teacher. Now, in our modern universities, frequently the pressure for writing books and articles is put so greatly upon the teacher that it keeps him from doing the thing that he could do best. Not all people can carry on research for the rest of their lives. And a great teacher should not be forced to do that which he can't do well. And I think great...in the literature I have in teaching at university, the Aramaic, it's a background of the New Testament, it was a language Jesus spoke. It says this, Parents frequently give birth only to the body of a child. A great teacher gives birth to the soul of a child. And the great teacher, if I may suggest this gentleman, is not only the man who is in contact with his students and meets them in his home and does his job of teaching. But he's also a man who's in constant contact with the sources of knowledge. I would say that the great teacher is not only a man who can handle a classroom situation, but he's a man as well who's engaged in research and publication. I think the two are in no sense incompatible. I'd say they're inseparable. They are inseparable. Because it's one of the functions of the university to advance knowledge. And that's what, therefore becomes one of the functions of the teacher. And may I, may I, uh, uh, say one other thing about your comment, Rabbi Mann. You say that education is something that is caught and not taught. If that's the case, do you think that educational institutions should concern themselves then with the kinds of propositions and values to which their, their faculties are committed? Is education failing because we have teachers who are not dedicated, or because we have teachers who have the wrong dedication? Well, some of each happens, uh, to be found in the university of today. But what I simply am pleading for, of course, may be almost impossible to attain by and large in every teacher. And that is this. We need a, an objective quest for the truth. And we need a broad, tolerant, kindly personality, from which, uh, students will learn that which cannot be found in books. What if you have a teacher that is thoroughly and completely dedicated to atheism? Or, com-, thoroughly and completely dedicated to communism? What would you do with those fellas? Uh, I would feel that, uh, he has no place in a university yet... But in your objective forum, this, uh, wouldn't you, uh, admit those opinions? I'm not arguing for them. I'm merely interpreting what I understood you to say. I would never dismiss a teacher for atheism, uh, providing he did not make propaganda for it. Would you agree with that, uh, Reed? Well, I don't know how his atheism would reflect itself unless he unconsciously made propaganda for it. That would be the thing I would be concerned about. Well, I think we always have to be careful in an educational institution that we're not, uh, propagandizing. The university is supposed to be objective and it's supposed to teach and find the truth. And, uh, it's on that basis that we're entitled to judge our teachers. Well, gentlemen, you've been confronted with some very rugged questions in this half hour, if I may say so. And it's certainly, I'm saying what we all know, that in, uh, this much time, uh, uh, we, we can't answer the problems of education for the future, nor can we foresee with perfect clarity the many educational problems which the future will bring. But if I understand you, to put it in a sentence or two, you charge the colleges and universities with the production of more thoughtful, spiritual men, who are better equipped to be dedicated to... You've been listening to a Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Should We Educate for the Future? We wish to thank our guests, Henry T. Heald, President of Illinois Institute of Technology, and Chancellor-Elect of New York University, Reverend Lewis L. Mann, Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai Congregation, and Guy E. Reed, Executive Vice President of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the Reviewing Stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss, How Can the American Heritage Survive? The program has been arranged in cooperation with the American Library Association. Our guests will be John T. Eastlick, Librarian of the Denver Public Library, Denver, Colorado, Cyril O. Houle, Dean of University College, University of Chicago, E.T. McSwain, Dean of the School of Education, Northwestern University, and Mrs. Grace Thomas Stevenson, Director of the American Library Association. We hope you'll be with us next Sunday for our discussion, How Can the American Heritage Survive? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System.