The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What is America reading? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand examines our reading habits and makes some recommendations. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the reader, the writer, the publisher, and the critic. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. In cooperation with the American Library Association, we present Nelson Aldrin, author of The Neon Wilderness, Never Come Morning, and The Man with the Golden Arm. Harrison Hayford, Assistant Professor of English at Northwestern University. Margaret Scoggin, Young People Specialist in the New York Public Library, an instructor in library science at St. John's University. And Forrest Spalding, radio commentator and librarian of the Des Moines Public Library. What is America reading? Give us your answer to our question, Harrison Hayford. America is reading words, words, words, as Hamlet said. We're reading all kinds of things that are written in words. Car cards, matchbook covers, telephone books, newspapers, magazines, whodunits, how to do it, novels, frivolous and serious, and non-fiction works of various kinds. I suppose by America we mean different kinds of people reading different things in print for different purposes. And that's a good thing. But I suppose what we want to discuss today is what we ordinarily think of as books, that is novels, and serious non-fiction. Well, may we hear from you, Nelson Alger. Well, Mr. McBurney, when I was asked that same question over this same network a year ago, I answered very firmly to the question, what is America reading? Nothing but hokum. But since in that interval I've added a bit of driftwood to last year's tide, I now feel editorially obliged to reply that things must be a bit better in 49. Well, now that's most encouraging, Mr. Algren. Do you go along with that optimism for a Spaulding? Well, I think I can, and while I would answer the way Hayford answered, if he hadn't done it before me, I'll be a little more specific and say that America is reading the whodunits of Earl Stanley Gardner and the books about How to Win a Canasta by Oswald Jacoby. I believe those are the two most popular writers in America today, much as I regret to tell Mr. Algren that. Now, how do you feel about this, Miss Scoggin? What are your teenagers reading, your bobby soxers and so on? I feel very encouraged because apparently they're reading better than Mr. Spaulding's group. They're reading everything they can lay their hands on. And if you think of the younger group, 12 to 14, they're reading books that probably you don't know anything about, sports stories and girls' stories and science fiction books. And as for the older group, it reads everything its well-read and not-so-well-read betters read, and I should say a little more critically. Well, now, what kinds of books are we reading? We'll cut out the match books, Hayford, for the time being. Are we reading fiction, history, picture books, escape literature? What kinds of things are we reading, Algren? Well, I think that we can't divide what people are reading very sharply anymore, as we used to be able to do into fiction, nonfiction, escape literature, and geographical romance and all that. It seems to me that there's, in the past year, there's sort of a shadowy realm wherein these departments overlap, such as old books that deal, for instance, with juvenile delinquency but are fictionized. So you don't know whether you're reading a caseworker study or a fiction book. I was thinking of a little book called Duke by Hal Elson, for example. That's true, and the outstanding novels of the year, because you will notice that many of them are carried as much by the background, or what would conventionally have been called the setting, as they are by interesting characters or narration. It seems to me that 1949 has seen one change in reading. We used to read more of the neurotic books, and I think we're getting away from what I might call neurotica. The snake pit type of thing isn't as much in evidence. Perhaps we're switching to the exotic and, to some extent, the erotic books. And then we've got an interesting group of books. I call them how-to books. How to do everything. How to win friends and influence people is the best example of it, and people certainly are still reading that. There is even a book on how to get tough with yourself. How to make a stamp collection. How to cook a dinner with only three-string beans, and books of that type. Now, what kind of subjects predominate in the books we're reading? You seem to have some difficulty typing them, but what are people interested in? In the war? In political, social, economic issues? Or do you go along with Spaulding here, when he says they're interested in these how-to books? Well, I can't answer that directly, but on my way down here this morning, on the streetcar, I saw one of Miss Goggins' Bobby Soxers reading the Old Testament, and it worried me. I mean, I don't know just how to make that out. Does that seem like a contradictory thing to you, Miss Goggins? Not at all. I think it proves what I said, that the teenagers are reading everything they can lay their hands on. I'm wondering about Miss Goggins' remark, though, that the teenagers are the great readers. What percent of the teenagers are readers? You certainly don't mean that all the teenagers are great readers. I mean that all the teenagers certainly do get exposed to reading, perhaps more than the adults, and I think they read more, by and large, than adults do. I have no statistics on that, except certain statistics that prove just that of library users, it was the teenage group that read most. That's wonderful, if true, and I'm all for the teenagers. I think they're doing a swell job in every line, but I'm a little surprised to hear you say that they are the great readers. If we look over the best-selling lists for the past year, we seem to see that there is less interest in the war than in the year before, that religious books are still continuing to hold great interest, and that books perhaps dealing with more immediately personal issues are coming to the fore. Interestingly enough, that has been our experience on this reviewing stand program. Our listeners have, I think quite clearly, evidenced an interest in these more personal, religious, psychiatric questions. I think there's been a shift away from an interest in political, economic, and social issues since the war. The thing that interests me about these new religious books is that we're getting away from dogma, and we're getting new views. We're finding a book about Jesus by a Jew, and the writers are not the old line writers of religious books such as E. Stanley Jones for inspirational work. I wonder if there's any tie-up between the tremendous upsurge in the pseudoscientific works and in the blue-sky religious reading matter. I mean, is it a preoccupation with the same thing? What do you think about that, Ms. Scott? I'm not sure that I want to answer that question, but before we go to it, may I say that perhaps this interest in this kind of religious book is a very good sign, because it means that people realize more than they once did that they have an individual responsibility. The world is overwhelming and too big, and as for this scientific fiction, all I can say about that is perhaps it's just the attempt of the ordinary man to find something that will help him understand what he can't understand very well in science. Now, what do you mean by scientific fiction, Spaulding? We've got a brand new... Well, no, it really isn't new, because we had it years ago with H.G. Wells and so on, but now that we have Superman in the comics, we have a similar thing in books, and all of our libraries, I think, are recognizing that the people who used to read only westerns or only mystery whodunnits are now reading the so-called scientific fiction, some of which is pretty good, but most of which is really pretty bad. You think it's unfair, then, to link religion and escape literature, scientific marvels, as we seem to be doing. I brought that up because I was trying to make something of a link between such a book as, well, there have been a couple of them, peace of soul and peace of mind. I wonder if it isn't the same sort of striving that... that... well, that... the same... if that doesn't bring something of the same sort of hope to older people as Superman does to younger people. What do you think about that? Well, I can tell you one thing. After reading some of those science fiction stories which I've read, you almost need a book called Peace of Soul or Peace of Mind. In other words, it's like the aspirin after the headache. Well, Miss Scoggin and gentlemen, are we reading good books? You talk about the Canasta fans. I don't mean to suggest that Canasta books aren't good, but are we reading good books, Spaulding? I really think we are reading good books, and I think that we have, if we look around for them, more good books year by year than we used to have. I like the output of books for 1949 in spite of the fact that many of the critics have said we have nothing exceptional, but we don't have too much that's awfully bad. Do you people share that view? How about you, Aldrin? Well, it does seem as though we ought to have more good books because we have more people, and therefore there's more writers, and the writers are writing more all the time, so just on a percentage basis, we ought to get more good books, just as we have more bad ones. What is a good book, by the way, Spaulding? Why, The Man with the Golden Arm is a good book, if I may compliment an author who is present, and it's a good book because it takes a person out of his own life and makes him think a little bit about the other fellow. I think it has tremendous social significance when people are reading, in some cases for vicarious thrills, and in other cases to find out how the other man lives. Do you think a book like that, Mr. Spaulding, should bring that man back to his own environment with a determination to do something, or is it just passive understanding? Not necessarily. I don't think that every book has got to do something for the character. I think a book has merely got to please and entertain and leave a thought in the minds of the reader. That is, you don't want it to be immediate propaganda, but you think that it might, in the long run, have some effect in making him a different kind of person? I think that reading The Man with the Golden Arm should make everybody in Chicago want to make living conditions along Division Street perhaps a little better. But they don't need to take the next streetcar. No. Now, while we're talking about good books here, what are some of your nominations for the good books of the year, Algood? Well, my idea of a good book is almost any book that would make the reader be a little less smug. I think any book that can touch a reader's smugness about anything is a good book, regardless of whether it's well written or not. Well, I've got several nominations here. Let's have them. Well, Tom Lee's The Brave Bulls, I thought was a fine book, and Frank Riedel's report on the Yamashita trial. And then a little book that I just mentioned on juvenile delinquency, Duke, by Hal Elson. And I also came on a little book, didn't get much of a play, called Sinners Come Away by Leon Wilson. I thought it was fine. And a book of which I have great confidence is The Big Cage by Robert Lowry. I thought that's one of the best reports of a Midwestern adolescent since Vardis Fisher's first book in the tragic life. May I say here before you pick up Spaulding that we'll make it a point to list these titles in the printed transcript of the reviewing stand so that our listeners may note them if they care to. Now, what do you have to say on that? I was going to say I'd go along with Algern's list with the possible exception of The Big Cage that I wasn't as enthusiastic about. Take the book that he mentioned on the Yamashita trial. That's a marvelous book, and it's a book that every American should read. I read in the galleys a book about the Scottsboro case, written by one of the Scottsboro boys just the other day. That's another book that people should read, but I don't believe they're going to. Instead, under the influence of book clubs and under the influence of the book promotion racket, they're reading The Egyptian, and I don't think The Egyptian is going to do for them what Algern's list will. Hayford? Well, as a professor and an academic, I'd like to put in a plug for academic books that don't get the attention they should. I think a good many very solid books are written every year by laboring professors in the small hours of the morning after they've read their freshman themes, which don't get the attention from the public they should, but which do a great deal to decrease the area of human ignorance and which will last through the years on library shelves much longer than many of the books that we're probably seeing on bestseller lists. Any word of sympathy for Mr. Hayford around the table? Well, I'll join him, of course. I don't think I want to read all those freshman themes. I know. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.