Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what does the Japanese peace treaty mean? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will present an analysis of the strong points and the weak points in the Japanese treaty, and their implications for American policy in the Far East. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Earl H. Picharn, Associate Professor of Far Eastern History at the University of Chicago, Kenneth Colgrove and William McGovern, both professors of political science at Northwestern University, and all men who have had great experience with Far Eastern problems. Now our question today, as you know, is, what does the Japanese peace treaty mean? Let's begin by getting your attitudes on this treaty, if we may. Richard, how do you feel about it? Well, McBurney, I don't think that it's an ideal treaty, or one which, under ideal circumstances, we would like to see. But I believe that it's the best treaty we could get, and therefore I'm certainly in favor of the treaty and of its ratification. It restores full sovereignty to Japan. It also does not load Japan with a heavy reparation debt, and it removes restrictions on, or doesn't put any restrictions on, Japanese industry and shipping. And most of all, it creates the circumstances where Japan can develop as a strong power in opposition to the spread of communism in the Far East. For those reasons, it seems to me that it's a fairly satisfactory treaty, and we should ratify it. Where do you stand on this, Bogo? McBurney, I think Dean Natchison won a cheap little victory at San Francisco when he got nearly 50 nations to sign this treaty. It seems to me this treaty is a bad treaty, that it sacrifices American national interests, and we should sign no treaty which does that thing. I quite agree with my friend Pritchard that this treaty does restore Japan to full sovereignty, and that it is good in the matter of not laying reparations upon Japan, and allowing Japan to move forward in industry and shipping. But I cannot agree that this treaty will help much in stabilizing the Far East. And the treaty is a bad treaty because it sacrifices in many points the national interests of the United States. It was a colossal mistake on the part of our State Department and Dean Natchison, our Secretary of State, to bar from the signatory powers the Chinese nationalists. We, of course, should have barred the Chinese Reds. They were not permitted to sign, but we should have permitted our allies, the Chinese nationalists, to participate in this treaty. And then we sacrificed, or Dean Natchison sacrificed, American national interests by providing that the United States should turn over Okinawa to the United Nations. Okinawa is necessary for the defense of Japan, and even for the defense of the United States. And Russia is a part of the United Nations, a part of the trusteeship system, and Russia will have a hand in the future of Okinawa under this treaty. That's against American national interests. And finally, it was a great mistake to force the Japanese to renounce their claims to Sakalene and the Kuril Islands. That is helping to carry out the atrocious provisions of the secret Yalta Agreement. All of these things are against American national interests, and I hope the United States Senate will refuse to ratify this very bad treaty. Where do you stand, McGovern? I stand halfway between Pritchard and Colgrove here. I agree with Colgrove that there are many weaknesses in the proposed Japanese treaty. I agree with him that what are those weaknesses, but on the other hand, I think that this is a workaday world and we have to make the best of what we can do. And I think this was the best available possible treaty that we could have at the present time. As you know, McBurney, I have criticized severely the far-eastern policy of our State Department from 1945 to 1950. I think they have brought on many of our tragedies and troubles in the Far East. One of the few things which they have succeeded in doing, largely under the wise leadership of MacArthur, incidentally, the foundations for this treaty, is to provide a new stepping stone for a new type in Asia. The reason I think that we can just go ahead and ratify it is it does bring peace, which is necessary for the Japanese public opinion. It shows very definitely that we are not imperialistic in granting Japan full sovereignty. It strengthens us with all the free peoples of Asia and enables us to lay a foundation whereby the free peoples of Asia can get together with our aid and assistance and fight the communist dictatorship and the menace to the whole of the Far East. For that reason, I think it's essential that we go along and ratify the treaty and it gives us the possibilities of going along to a newer and better Far Eastern situation. But are we wise, I wonder, in granting Japan full sovereignty, McGovern? Do you think she can be trusted? Well, of course, McBurney, no one can be trusted too far around the corner, but certainly at the present moment. It is very much to our advantage to have Japan granted full sovereignty. Japan has had a terrific change of opinion. Whereas a few years ago she was our enemy, she's now, as a matter of fact, we are enormously popular in Japan and with the Japanese. I've gone along and talked to hundreds of Japanese, not an official position, but with those two, and I realized they're looking for America as the aid in establishing a new and free order of Asia. And for that reason, I feel that she can, at the present moment, be regarded as a bastion of pro-American feeling in the Far East. In this connection, I'd like to point out that there's, of course, always some possibility that Japan will become a menace in the future. But there are very definite reasons why I think she's not likely to become that in the near future. First of all, she will not have the economic strength to develop a great war machine, and there seems little likelihood of her developing such economic strength in the near future. If she can develop enough strength to protect herself, that will be about all that she can do. And in the second place, Japan was a disturber of the peace in the Far East in the past because she had no effective competitor. Today, Communist China is sufficiently strong so that Japan is not likely to be able to embark upon a program of domination in the Far East. I think that if Japan can develop economic and military strength sufficient to defend herself and be a bastion to the spread of communism, that will be all that's likely to happen. Well, now, is it anticipated that Japan will develop her military strength under the provisions of this treaty, Colgrove? Well, McBurney, I agree with both William McGovern and Earl Pritchard that Japan can be trusted in this matter to stay within the democratic fold. John MacArthur has conducted a remarkable experiment in democracy in Japan, and the Japanese in the last five or six years have gone forward in a truly marvelous democratic way. Then, again, there is a definite feeling in Japan at the present time that communism is something that is not good for Japan, and they will resist communism as long as they have the strength to do it, and as long as they have the aid of the United States in this matter. I think also we can be clear that the Japanese want to defend themselves too, and the Japanese Constitution will not stand in their way in this matter. The Constitution in Article 9, the new Constitution in Article 9, renounced war as an instrument of national policy. But it went on to say that in order to carry out that policy, the government would not maintain an army, navy, and air force. Later on, when menace of Japan from the side of Soviet Russia and red China became so obvious, John MacArthur gave an interpretation of this Article 9 to the effect that the Japanese would be free to maintain an army, navy, and air force for self-defense. And that interpretation by John MacArthur has been recognized by our state department, recognized by the almost 50 nations which have been represented at the San Francisco. So I think that we can say that Japan is fully within her rights in cooperating with the United States and setting up an army, navy, and air force for their own defense. Now I may add just one other point regarding the 56 senators who are so much worried that Prime Minister Yoshida may negotiate a treaty with red China. I think we can depend upon Yoshida and his government that no treaty recognizing red China by Japan will be made in the next few years. In that same connection, I want to bring out one other point here. I think it is essential to aid Japan to become self-sufficient and self-protecting, which means the reorganization of her armed forces, at least on a limited scale. I think one of the amazing things that we and the weaknesses we have done, we have tried to send in American troops, American manpower to try to police the world. What I think we want to do is to aid the world in being free and in maintaining freedom. Here we are having our troops do the major part of the fighting in Korea. And if it comes to a major war, it will be essential for us to look for manpower allies. I think we want to look to the Nationalist China troops. We also can well avail ourselves to the Japanese troops who will assist us enormously in fighting a war with Communist China if it does come down to a knock-down, drag-out fight. And I think it is essential that we bear that in mind that the Japanese soldiers, who are good soldiers, would be of enormous advantage to us in fighting fellow Orientals. And we have a great deal of feeling against our shooting down Orientals, even against communism. Hence, I welcome the reorganization of the Japanese armed forces as potential allies. And with a strong Japanese armed force as our allies, Redshan is far less likely to go out of hand. I agree with McGovern's point that it's highly desirable to have Japan in a position to defend herself and to support the program of the democratic powers in the Far East against communist expansion. There's one point that Colgrove made, which it seems to me we might expand just a little. It's quite true that the treaty doesn't place any limitations upon Japanese armament, and that under present interpretations of the allied, or the American occupying power, Japan can rearm. But technically, our own constitution forbids her from rearm. And I suspect that one of the first things the Japanese will have to do, will do, is to put through an amendment to their constitution permitting them to maintain an army and navy. Well, I would say that it can be done even without an amendment. It would be very easy to amend the Japanese constitution on this matter, and I think, uh, uh, Premier, uh, Yoshida, with his great majority in the diet, could, uh, very easily do it. Uh, on the other hand, I would rather just like to see him do it, because that's a, uh, very good point. The time is going to come when that sort of thing is going to be in the constitution of all countries, including probably even the United States. So I wouldn't like to see the Japanese give up that point at the present time. Uh, John MacArthur has placed, uh, a wise interpretation, uh, upon, uh, that article, the Japanese constitution. The Japanese themselves have accepted it, and the whole world, uh, now, possibly with the exception of Soviet Russia, uh, has accepted it. So there is absolutely no need at the present time for an amendment of the Japanese constitution in law, in order to allow the Japanese to have a war with the Japanese. They have a war, uh, have a military establishment for the purpose of self-defense and not carrying on aggressive war. Well now, is the, is the truth of the matter just about this, that Japan, under the provisions of this treaty, will become a, a, uh, military camp, uh, with our aid and assistance as a bastion against our enemies in the, in the Far East? Yes, McBurney. Yes, McBurney. The whole world is becoming a military camp. The United States is a military camp. We have, uh, three million men under arm. We're sending our boys, uh, uh, to train, uh, to fight on the battlefields of Europe. We're sending our boys over to Korea, uh, to fight Mr. Truman's, uh, little war. A war which Mr. Truman declared, uh, or, uh, began without even consulting Congress. He gets around the constitution by calling it a police action, but it's a war nevertheless. And, uh, our casualties have gone up to nearly, uh, 90,000 in Mr. Truman's little war. The whole world is in a military camp at the present time. General Eisenhower, uh, is in Europe, uh, at the head of a large army of, uh, British, uh, French, and other nations, in order to meet the Russians when they, uh, attack. We're not going to have peace, uh, McBurney, in this world until such dictatorships as Mussolini and Hitler and the police bureau of Soviet Russia are completely exterminated. We have succeeded in defeating Hitler and Mussolini, but the world is now confronted, uh, with a group of gangsters in the Kremlin, and another group of gangsters in Peking, who are going to keep us, uh, under arms until they are finally destroyed. I think it's essential, as far as we can bear this mind, that one of our weaknesses in the immediate post-war period was to weaken Germany and Japan too much. They had to be conquered. They had to be stopped. I agree. But on the other hand, we, what we did is we weakened Japan and Germany in such a way as to enormously strengthen our greatest potential enemy, Russia. And anything we can do to revive a balance of power will help us in maintaining a stable peace. And more especially, I want to bring out this point, and that is the time when Russia is arming and training her satellite powers, whether in North Korea, whether in China, whether in satellite Europe. She is arming and training all of her satellites in a potential threat against the free world. And it's perfectly ridiculous for us that we should not be willing to accept as allies, and willing and voluntary allies, the Japanese, the Nassistians, the Filipinos, the, the, um, the Siamese and other peoples who are willing and anxious to fight for freedom for the world and for themselves. Well, in line with that thinking, the treaty frees Japan of all reparations and removes restrictions on her industry and, uh, and shipping. I, I take it then that you, uh, you think that's wise too, McGovern? Well, as far as that's concerned, I think it's very important to bear this in mind, so we're apt to forget. It isn't a question of the, uh, ideal situation, it's a question that actually Japan is not self-supporting under normal conditions. And certainly if she has to pay heavy reparations, and certainly if she is, if her freedom of movement is important, exports are stopped. Japan cannot be self-sufficient. Japan now has 83 million people. She cannot provide food for them. That about 20 to 25 percent of all of her foodstuffs have to be imported. That 75 percent of all of her other raw materials have to be imported. And it means that if, unless Japan is made reasonably free in her international trade, she becomes a burden upon the taxpayers of the United States. As a matter of fact, many of her people are not aware of the fact for the last five years that the Japanese people have been fed in large measure at the, at the expense of the American taxpayer. And I feel that this cannot go on indefinitely. The only way in which Japan can be made self-sufficient and self-supporting economically is by freeing her of heavy reparations and by permitting her to import and export fairly freely. Well now, will this, will this, even these provisions take the Japanese economy off our backs? Well I think that's an open question. Before the war, Japan depended heavily upon imports of raw materials, particularly coal and iron from China, and upon the Chinese market. Now under the existing circumstances, she can't expect to import those items to a large extent, or have this market. And I think Japan is going to be faced with a very serious difficulty. It certainly will be. A matter of touch and go, I think, as to whether Japan can develop economic self-sufficiency and strength. And I think that the American people might as well have in mind that if we're going to have Japan as a bastion against communist expansion in the Far East, that we must expect to see her develop a stable economy. And this may involve us in a certain amount of subsidy or help in the form of seeing that she is supplied with coal and iron and some raw materials that she will need. May I break in just for a second, Pritchard, on that? I agree with what you say with one or two minor modifications. Now it is quite true that Japan had to import, as we've said, 75% of her raw materials and had to import a great deal of her iron ore, and also had to import some of her coal. Actually, the coal she imported was essentially a small item of coking coal. That Japan was more or less self-sufficient, ordinary coal, so coking coal that she had to get from northern China. But that is available to her in large measure from Hokkaido at the present time. The same way the iron ore that she got was very low-grade ore primarily from Manchuria. As a matter of fact, China herself was extremely weak in iron. And the Japanese were having to turn more and more to the iron resources of the Philippines and of Malaya. With the ferro-alloys, the manganese and the chrome in the Philippines, with the iron ore in the Philippines and Malaya, Japan would be able to manufacture all the available steel. It's the coking coal that is the really crucial thing, and that, I think, can be solved without too much problem of China. And, Pritchard, if it comes to a question of subsidizing anybody, I would much rather see the United States subsidize Japan, so that Japan may get on our feet and become once more the workshop of Asia. I would like to see the United States subsidize Japan because Japan cooperates with us. I would take away our subsidization of Great Britain and of India and of other countries that don't cooperate with us. Here, after we have loaned nearly $15 billion altogether to England, after we're going to ship to England 2 million tons of steel this next year, Great Britain goes ahead and recognizes red China without consulting the United States. And Great Britain has not carried her share in the Korean War. She hasn't cooperated with the United States in the United Nations matters or in Asiatic affairs. Now, I would withdraw our subsidies to Great Britain and give our subsidies to a country which we recognize is an ally of the United States and is a part of the defense system of the United States in the Pacific. Well, Colgrove, I don't want to be misunderstood. I was merely pointing out that we might have to subsidize Japan. I think that we should, but I certainly wouldn't go along with you and argue that we should withdraw support from Britain and other European countries which are even more essential to our defense against communism. Now, let me bring this back to the treaty, Colgrove. Is there anything that this proposed Japanese peace treaty, which is being submitted to the Senate for ratification, might have done to help Japan get on our economic feet that it hasn't done? Well, the most important thing, of course, would have been to permitted the Chinese nationalists to participate in the treaty and to sign the treaty. Because the Formosa government is our ally and it will be the ally of Japan. And, of course, we should help our allies rather than help our enemies. Again, if we give the proper aid to Chiang Kai-shek and the nationalist government on Formosa, there is very good reason for believing that the nationalists can win back control of southern China. And if they win back control of southern China, then you've neutralized China because you have the democracy in south China and you have Mao Tse-tung and the communists in north China holding each other back. And under that arrangement, quite likely, some arrangements could be made for importation of coal and iron from Manchuria. The great point, of course, would be to neutralize the Red Chinese by allowing Chiang Kai-shek to move into the southern part of China. I have thoroughly agreed with Colgrove and his dislike of the brutal and ruthless tyranny which the communists have inflicted upon China. But if we may, McBernie, get back to the principal question here, and that is namely the peace treaty. The peace treaty does not recognize Red China, does not give Red China special powers and privileges. It permits Japan to make a treaty with free China or nationalist China. And as Colgrove has already said, in all probability we are almost certain that Yoshida, the prime minister of Japan, will make a treaty with nationalist China, not with communist China. But the treaty doesn't aid Chiang Kai-shek one single bit and that's what should be done. No, but this is a peace treaty with Japan. We are not, I don't think we should interfere, make two different things with one blow. This is to try to make Japan self-sufficient, self-sufficient. I think then our China policy is a very different matter. I think there's a very important point here, Colgrove, that if we had tried to negotiate a treaty with nationalist China involved, a great number of the powers, many of the powers who have now signed it, wouldn't have had anything to do with it. We were dealing with a practical situation here in which we wanted the vast majority of countries to agree to the treaty. And furthermore, I... Of course they would go along. All the United States has to be... has to do is to be firm in this matter. And diplomacy isn't so weak and lacking in imagination that we couldn't have discovered a formula under which Great Britain could sign the very same treaty that Chiang Kai-shek signed. Diplomacy has means of getting around those technicalities. What Mr. Acheson and the State Department are failing to do at the present time are to watch the national interest of the American people and not appease Great Britain as well as appeasing Soviet Russia and Red China. I want to see a Department of State that will look after the national interest of the American people. Well now, I can't hardly agree with you on that. You know, the State Department is open hunting for many people today, but I certainly do not agree with the notion that it doesn't look out for American national interest. Frankly, I doubt very much that a number of countries would have signed the treaty. It's possible that some formula could have been worked out with Great Britain. Uh, but I'm still inclined to think that the number of Asiatic countries that signed it would not have signed it otherwise, because they are really, quite a number of these countries have very little use for nationalist China. And one other point in this connection, Cold Grove is banking heavily upon the nationalists being able to regain South China. Personally, I don't think that they're capable of regaining South China. I think that if leadership is to develop, which will someday oust the communists from China, it will come from inside China and not from Nationalist China. Come from inside China after Chiang Kai-shek goes in there and allows the dissidents of the Reds to be able to make some fight. I'm sure that... Well, if I may break in here on this particular point, I think we're getting a little bit aside from the subject. The subject is a treaty with Japan to try to start the foundations of a free Asiatic democracy, in alliance with the free powers, including the United States of America. It would have been disastrous if the peace treaty had recognized Communist China. But that it does not do. I'm also in agreement with Cold Grove. Long term, the only hope for American far-eastern policy is the overthrow of communism in China. But I do not think the peace treaty with Japan was a time to involve too many other outside interests. The main thing is that the worst can say is the omission of Nationalist China, but far better is the fact that it is the deliberate omission of Communist China. And I think on this basis here, we can then, I hope, reorient our far-eastern policy in our State Department to try to rebuild a free China. And now we're trying to, as we now are trying to do, is to build a free Japan. Well, now, Cold Grove expressed concern earlier about turning Okinawa over to the United Nations and renouncing Japanese claims to the Kuril Islands. Do you share that concern, McGovern? No, I do not, as a matter of fact. The Okinawa problem is a long and complicated problem, which we won't go into here, but fundamentally the Okinawa, which is part of the Liu Chu archipelago to the Ryukyu archipelago, are inhabited by a special people, the Luchuans or Ryukyuans. And long term, fifty-hundred years from now, I'd like to have them a little independent republic or kingdom of their own as they were until 1875. At the moment it's essential, however, that we use the Okinawa as a base, and under this treaty we'll still be able to use it as a military base for operations against Communist forces. Now you say, Cold Grove, that the Senate should not ratify the treaty? Yes, I say the Senate should refuse to ratify it or else attach reservations which will cover the points which I've made. You say they should, Pritchard. Oh, I think it would be a tragic mistake if we didn't ratify the treaty. After all, we've taken the leading part in negotiating it. If we didn't ratify it, our stock would descend to nothing, so far as Europe and other Asiatic countries are concerned. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does the Japanese Peace Treaty Mean? We invite you to send now for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. These copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may wish to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. We want to thank today's guests, Kenneth Colgrove and William M. McGovern, both professors of political science at Northwestern University, and Earl H. Pritchard, associate professor of Far Eastern History at the University of Chicago. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will examine what freedom of communication, freedom of press and freedom of speech means to all of us. Our topic, How Does Freedom of Information Affect You? Our guests will be Alberto Genza-Paz, editor and publisher of La Prinza, the Argentine newspaper recently closed by President Juan Perón, Tom Wallace, president of the Inter-American Press Association, Alexander F. Jones, president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and Kenneth Olson, dean of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for what promises to be a stimulating discussion of vital interest to all Americans. How does freedom of information affect you? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. This is the beautiful lady namedелей in areas toact coast every month. It was爸's teaching these days zas between grip-ass subst представляите and theangarium in its introduction over look and can see a foundational bridge that they extremely beltризed. If we have fairy- educator and study, during this training and study of AT spouse bills is the core of the seaaaaish on base off it with using their dopging existing system. That is what they need to replicate the Forest side. That's the rest of their natural bridge screen coming up before building the flag-based system. Thanks to those who have made us a complete vision in communities or three o'clock