The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, is receiving the President of the Philippine Islands, His Excellency Elpidio Quirino. The President of the Philippines has just entered the Council Chamber in the historic City Hall, and the usual few moments of personal greetings by the President Quirino to those of New York whom he hasn't had the opportunity to speak to in person as he approaches the dais here in the Council Chamber. The Mayor himself now is having a quiet little tata-tate with the President of the Philippines while the cameramen are having their innings and photographing this momentous event. Possibly one of the finest receptions ever attended, a visiting celebrity was the occasion at LaGuardia Field when His Excellency was received by Groveray Whelan and the committee in honor and acting for the Mayor who did not go to LaGuardia Field, who was busy here at City Hall, but who is now very much in the company of the President of the Philippines and doing everything he can to make the visit a pleasant, a homey and a friendly one. The cameramen are demanding some very friendly pictures right now, and the Mayor is in deep conversation with the President. And because the band is playing and making so much sound, shall I say, it's quite difficult for anyone to talk. And for that reason, the Mayor had to almost talk into the President's ear and the President into the Mayor's. And now, the cameramen are still busy taking pictures while our good friends the band bring us plenty of music. We'll have some interesting facts to tell you about the reception of LaGuardia Field, but we don't want to tie up anything now because as soon as it's possible to do so, Mr. Whelan will make the formal introductions to the Mayor to carry out the prodigal of reception, even though everybody knows that the Mayor of the City of New York was expecting the President of the Philippines and has done everything possible to make the visit an interesting one. And now, Mr. Whelan. National anthem will be sung by Patrolman Smith of the Fleece Fleet Club. Latin The Thee to our souls adore Land dear and holy Cradle of noble heroes Ne'er shall invaders Trample thy sacred shore Ever within thy skies And through thy clouds And o'er thy hills and sea Do we behold the radiant Feel the trough Of glorious liberty Thy banner dear To all our hearts Its sun and stars alight Oh, never shall its shining field Be dimmed by tyrants' might Beautiful land of love Oh, land of light In thine embrace His rapture to lie But it is glory Ever when thou art wrong For us thy sons to suffer And die And die Oh, say can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Oh, broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight Oh, the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming O'er the'll the stood With the dew O'er the throne The who alt trees What Seni affinity And the cannon sings Waves over the tide See and hear O'er the fire The farINT baja O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave? And now Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, I have the honor to present his excellent name to President Creel of the Philippines. Mr. Whelan, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen who have come to join with us in paying this official honor to our distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen who are listening in. This is a great hour in the history of the city of New York. We who have followed the events in the Far East during the war and since the war have been waiting for that glorious day when we could officially welcome with our hearts and our souls the great President of the Republic of the Philippines, President Quirino. Mr. President, in welcoming you to New York City, we would want you to know, and we do want you to know, that we understand the high purpose of your visit. Mr. President, we know that you are here to work for the preservation of freedom by adding to the great respect that exists between your nation and ours. Mr. President, your record of friendship, sir, the high office that the people of the Philippines have given to you, and your great courage during the Japanese occupation of your country, command our deepest admiration. Mr. President, you are much, you are one who knows the dreadful meaning of military aggression. There are many here in our city who have known it too, in other parts of the world. There are many here who joined you and your people in fighting for the liberation of the Philippines. They and all of us in New York City have been your friends in war. However, because we understand the great sacrifices that you and your people have made, and because you too are a champion of freedom and democracy, we are also your friends in peace. We recognize the new Philippine Republic as a strong point of democracy in the Pacific. We recognize it as one from which democracy can flow to all of Asia. We bid you, sir, a hearty welcome to New York City. And we extend to you the hand of sincere friendship. In the name of the city of New York, I offer you this citation for distinguished and exceptional public service. May you long continue your effective labors for humanity. And may God bless you and your people. We just heard the mayor of the city of New York greet his excellency, President Carino of the Philippine Republic. And he is now handing him the scroll and is taking a few moments while the newspaper men demand a picture of this historic event as the mayor hands the scroll to the president. And now the mayor. Would you like me to read the citation that we have presented to you? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's a seal of the city of New York to be affixed this 11th day of August, 1949. And I have had the extreme privilege of signing this testimonial to his excellency. Thank you. The mayor has just read the city's citation, which he handed to the president of the Philippine Republic. I have the honor to present to you our honored guest, the President of the Philippines, President Kirill. Menor O'Dwyan, ladies and gentlemen and friends, I am certainly overwhelmed by this manifestation of cordiality and hospitality of the city of New York. Since 1917, I have been a frequent visitor of this city. I am not a stranger to its hospitality, its beauty, and its gaiety. But I am a stranger to such a distinguished honor that has been conferred upon me at this moment. Verily, Mr. Mayor, you did not cite me on that parchment. You cited the history, the bravery, and the heroism of the Filipino people in the darkest hour of their history. The traditional hospitality of the city of New York has been eloquently shown this morning. But I observed that there was more of generosity than hospitality. And I wish to think that this hospitality and generosity shown to me this morning is due to your daughter republic, which has always followed the high policies and the humanitarian mission of the United States in the world. For over 30 years ago, before our independence was declared in 1946, I used to hear those two national anthems played one after the other. And I used to see our two flags flying over the Philippine air during that period. How beautifully and correctly they sang the Philippine anthem this morning, I want to attest to. And how more beautifully and harmoniously the Star Spangled Banner was sung to me touches my heart, because that was the anthem that I used to sing at the opening of every school in my school days in my home province. Today, however, in the Philippines, those two flags no longer float over our air. Those two anthems no longer are played one after the other, at least on the same occasion, unless it is a dual program of the Philippine and American people getting together to celebrate any formal occasion. Today, we are feeling a nostalgia in the Philippines. We see our only flag floating in our air, and we hear our only anthem being played. And every time that we sing our national anthem, and every time that we see our flag floating in our air, and remember those days when your flag and your anthem were float, also in the air, and was sung, we remember those days of association with the United States of America, in which we were regarded as the ward, and perhaps intimate, or favorite son of the United States of America. Today, whenever we hear the United States national anthem, there is something that instills in our heart, a high sense of responsibility, that now that we are alone, we have to carry on the symbolic meaning of that flag and the national anthem, even in our land. The record of the United States occupation in the Philippines has been a record of magnanimity, of unselfishness, of a high-minded mission, and of a burning love for democracy. When the United States pulled out from the Philippines, you were able to withdraw your troops. You withdraw your authority, but you did not withdraw from us your love, and your heart from the Filipino people. For this, Mr. Mayor, I came as the first President of the Republic of the Philippines to step on your soil, in a mission of gratitude. To show to the United States of America not only that sense of gratification over the fact that in July of 1946 you granted our independence, but to show to you our increasing loyalty every day. I say increasing loyalty because without any legal obligation, America continues to have a concern for the future and the welfare and the happiness and what is more, the security of the Republic of the Philippines. I wish I could enjoy more. The hospitality of New York is kind, but as you well-known, Mr. Mayor, we're in the midst of a political campaign in my country, and I cannot very well be long away from my daily weight. I have political rivals who are busy, rude, active, penetrating, and I am enjoying the hospitality and all these honours show upon me in the United States. But I hope that I will come back again as President of the Philippines. Thank you very much. We've heard the reply of the President of the Philippine Republic to the Mayor of the City of New York. Now Mr. Wayland makes an announcement. One number by the police police. Please cut. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, grandness on earth. I pledge thee by allegiance, America the bold. For this is my country, to have and to hold. What difference is my hail from north or south, For from the east or west, My heart is filled with love, O Lord of Thee. I only know I swell with pride, And deep within my breath, I thrill to see, O glory, St. the breeze. O glory, St. the breeze. O glory, St. the breeze. O glory, St. the breeze. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, land of my birth. This is my country, land of my birth. I pledge thee by allegiance, America the bold. For this is my country, To have and to hold. Will the distinguished audience please remain in their seats until the mayor and the president and the immediate party leave the chamber. Mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer has received His Excellency, the President of the Philippine Republic, Elpidio Carino, here at City Hall with the distinguished members of his cortege who have come to this country to confer with the President of the United States and of course stopped off at our great and wonderful city, New York, before he returned back to the Republic of the Philippines. I think it is proper at this time to pay a tribute to the police department and to Commissioner O'Brien for the magnificent police coverage of this event here today. And particularly by this do I mean the facility of the two-way radio communication which was so ably demonstrated in the matter of the cortege leaving LaGuardia Field and proceeding to City Hall, New York. From the very moment that the first wheel turned at LaGuardia Field, the police two-way communication kept thoroughly informed all members of the police along the line for the clearance of traffic but the facility of it so that the business of the city was not interrupted in order that every courtesy may be shown the President of the Philippines in proceeding safely and quickly from LaGuardia Field to City Hall. It was my privilege to ride in the car of our Executive Officer, Mr. DeCrospo, who had a police radio in his car. And in this way I was able to follow the fascinating radio picture as the police department reported each strategical point as the cortege passed for the advantage of the police units that would handle that cortege as it proceeded from LaGuardia Field to the battery in Manhattan for the parade up the Grand Canyon of Broadway to City Hall. I know that Commissioner O'Brien is not the slightest bit interested in compliment where duty is concerned. But when duty is such a compliment to efficiency, I think it proper and just to mention the fact that the police two-way communication is one of the most outstanding scientific achievements in the matter of police work. And if the poor stupid criminals will only buy police radios and tune in and understand that they haven't got a chance once the police department is alerted, they'll know very well that their efficiency as good citizens will soon match the efficiency of the police department to convert them. And with this tribute to the police department and the wonderful arrangements which they made today in Mayor O'Dwyer's reception to the President of the Philippine Republic, we take leave of you from City Hall and return you to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.