Mr. Kagan has the floor. There was quite extensive... Order, please. Mr. Kagan has the floor. Proceed, Mr. Kagan, please. I thought a point of order was called, Mr. President, because there was some interruption. There's no point of order called. Mr. President, there was some extensive discussion of this resolution last week, and in the extensive discussion, some inferences were drawn. And while I can't be responsible for all the inferences, I'd like to correct one with special reference to the director of the station, Mr. Morris Novick. Now, I intended no reflection upon Mr. Novick's Americanism, nor did I utter anything that could properly be construed as such. Because I know Mr. Novick's background, I know his religious training, and I know because of his efforts to promote religious discussion on a station with which he was previously identified with, that there's little doubt in the minds of anybody who knows his background about his Americanism. And having corrected that, I must, because of the circumstances attending some efforts that have been made since last Tuesday, refrain from attempting to correct other things. But I should like to say to the persons who attempted to intimidate me between last Tuesday and today, that nothing that they did will stop me from affecting every ounce of energy I can affect to accomplish the adoption of this resolution. Nor will it ever stop me from exercising what I regard as my public duty as an elected official, to keep every subservient group, every subversive effort from being made against the government of this country, and particularly to prevent the citizens of this city as the taxpayers from being led into a trap where they're going to pay for the spreading of that subversive activity. Litigation in courts outside the city of New York won't stop me no matter what the sums involved are. And it's a rather peculiar thing that one of the gentlemen or two of the gentlemen who were merely incidents in my description of last week's events should elect to sue me in a court outside the jurisdiction of New York City, since the city's radio station was what was involved in my discussion, and sue me because they're bona fide residents of counties outside of the city while they were using the city radio station for the program that I still insist lacked every element of a travelogue and which I definitely brand as my own conclusion as a piece of Soviet propaganda. Now, there are many evidences that can be offered when the proper time comes about the accuracy of the description of this alleged travelogue. There were many omissions in the travelogue about conditions, no descriptions of the geographical layout of the country, and there was a splendid opportunity there to describe the resplendent Ukrainian forests, even though a speaker might have to tell about the scarred bark on the trees from the machine guns that were mowing down citizens of that country who might have seen fit to disagree with the bloodthirsty dictator who now rules what the speaker described as one-sixth of the landed surface of the world. I think we've had enough debate on it last week, and I don't want to prolong the discussion, and I now move the adoption of the resolution under which a committee of this council, designated by the Committee on Rules, will be selected to inquire into the operation of the station and to determine whether or not its operation is in the best interests of the taxpayers of this city or whether the best interests of the people who pay the bills in this town might not best be served by us cancelling our franchise. And I might say in passing that I don't intend to stop in the chamber of this council with this investigation. If I don't accomplish what I seek to accomplish here, I will go to the Federal Radio Communication in Washington, and I will resort to every legal process that I can find that will accomplish what I purpose to do. And I move the resolution. Mr. Baldwin, is the resolution seconded? Mr. Baldwin has the floor. I can't believe it in all seriousness. This legislative body is going to consider a resolution to look into the activities of the city radio station on the basis presented by Mr. King. I know that my own record, both family and person, permits me to say emphatically that I have no sympathy with the Communist Party or with Soviet Russia. But I also know that a travelogue which describes caviar and Russian furs and the attractive peasant costumes and ladies that one may see on the streets of Moscow is not something that's going to worry me so far as the political activities of the alleged bloodthirsty dictator. and this country are concerned. I think it is absolutely ridiculous for us to stand here and debate this thing, and I'm not going to debate it at length. Suffice it for me to say that if anybody in this council is afraid to have Communist Russia stack its picture alongside the picture of the progress in this country, then they can't be very sure of the things that have been done in this country. This question has come up. Russia is going to exhibit, for instance, in Flushing Meadow Park next year. Russia exhibited things in an English fair a few years ago. Russia exhibited things in a French fair. And the comparison with what actually existed in those countries was sufficient to have the citizens of those countries look at those exhibits and be quite content with what they had in their own country. I think it's a reflection on this community to say that we can't have a travelogue in Russia, and I can't see why that isn't a travelogue. Just because it doesn't discuss mountains and trees, it discusses things that travelers are interested in. I assume that the gentleman who proposes the resolution if he traveled at all would enjoy eating good caviar and possibly buying good food. I'm sure that if I am talking about the city of New York, I tell people not only about the big buildings, but that they can get good food and Italian spaghetti and Chinese dishes and Irish stews and a lot of other things over here. Now, I don't see how we can take it seriously. I can't, except that that kind of thing is what builds up the very thing that Mr. Keegan is worried about in this country. I don't think that it's important enough to make a great steam over it here, except for personal reasons on somebody's part. And I, Mr. Chairman, submit that we should vote against this resolution, all resolutions of that kind, in the legislative body of this country. Excuse me, Mr. Sharkey, I think it was his speed first. Mr. Chairman, I shall oppose this resolution for many reasons. But above all else, it seems to me that one member of a council objecting to the kind of educational program that may be put on over the only non-commercial broadcasting system in this city would throw us into chaos because every time any of us happened to hear something on the New York City radio station which we didn't happen to agree with, we could institute a motion to investigate the radio station. Now, it was not read into the record last week and I was a little, I was surprised and rather amazed when Mr. Keegan took the time he did. I understand and I sympathize with his great concern. I really do, Mr. Keegan, sincerely, that this broadcasting station be maintained on the very highest basis of which it can be run because I think it is serving a great, offering a great service to the people of this city, particularly in education during the whole year on city matters. Now, I did not see and I have read the script, I have asked for it because I was concerned with the implications of what Mr. Keegan presented to the council last week. I have read the script of that travelogue and it seems to me that it is a rather light-hearted, rather weighted, I will admit, beautiful picture of certain conditions in Soviet Russia. I should have been a little more happy if they had put in a little more about people who are starving in Russia but that I am not censoring the stuff that goes over the radio if the person who gives that talk wishes to give that particular picture. It was not brought to the attention of the council last week that this broadcast was one of a series which has been going on over this radio of New York City for almost two years that it has been offered under the auspices of the National Travel Club at 116 East 16th Street, New York City, which is a non-profit organization which has not only put these talks on over our own radio but which has permitted other broadcasting stations all over the country and including many college broadcasting stations up to 234 to participate in these broadcasts two 15-minute scripts a week to 234 radio stations throughout the country. Now, I could take up more of the council's time and give you a list of the kind of people, the type of persons who have been on this radio broadcast program. They are people some of whom I know well and those whom I know are people of outstanding qualifications in America as Americans. It so happens that Mr. Brandt who wrote this broadcast is an author of some prestige whose articles have appeared in Scribner's He's the son of the American Revolution which is something in this country I suppose He's a registered Democrat and he has many fine cultural and patriotic backgrounds. I should be very reluctant therefore on the basis of the charges brought last week to investigate this New York City broadcasting station. Mr. Sharkey had the floor and yielded to Mrs. Earl. I don't know whether I'm in favor of an investigation of the city radio station but I disagree with Mr. Baldwin and I see good reason to look into its activities and limit its use. I remember a year ago that they had an Arabian lecture on this radio station and the charges were brought then by some of the leaders of the Jewish people in this city that there had been insulting remarks made against their race. I can remember just recently Mr. Baldwin using that station to exhort the people of Queens to make Mr. Quinn vote for a certain gentleman for vice chairman of this board of this council. I think that was wrong to use it for that purpose. And Mr. Keegan objects at this time because of it's being used for this Russian activity. Now I think this station should be limited in its use. The people of this city are paying for this radio station. It's an expense to the citizens of this city. And it shouldn't be used for travelogues or for any other papers. Possibly only for civic movements, for the report on municipal affairs, and possibly for patriotic organizations. And that's all. And after Mr. Keegan has looked into this matter finally, if he doesn't present a resolution or a law to limit this station, I will. Mr. Bellis has the floor. very little ridiculous to Mr. Baldwin. I want to most vehemently register my objection not to the immediate question that's coming before this body, but to a question which has much broader implications. And I refer to a popular pastime which I thought had died with the election of President Roosevelt, with the election of Governor Lehman, and our own mayor, Fiorello H. LaGuardia. I refer to the pastime of red vaping. Every progressive, every liberal, every worthwhile movement that we have seen come forth within the past five or six years has been done in an attempt by those who do not wish to discuss the merits, do not wish to discuss the issues, but simply are interested in obstructing, confusing, and confounding by waving that good old shibboleth of the red flag. Now, I happen to be a citizen of this country by adoption, and I will place my loyalty to this country on the basis of not what I say, but what I have done as a citizen in my community and in this city and in this country with any of us, including my good friend Mr. Keegan on the other side. And I defy anybody to challenge my loyalty or my, quote, Americanism. But I decry this attempt made yes on a somewhat justifiable basis. At least there's a color of some basis here that there is dissemination of information of some sort or another going out here through the medium of the city's service in behalf of the Communist Party or the communists over in Russia. But I have seen, as Mr. Vladek has pointed, that same type of tactic, that same activity on the part of the other members of the House. And I say fair warning that the things that have made America dear and near to my heart are one of those things, the right to express yourself freely. And we, of all people, should not attempt here in a free democratic country to attempt to emulate Germany and a lot of the other non-democratic countries on the other side in setting ourselves up as a sense of the country who are attempting to curtail its activities when it gave any number of these other programs affecting other foreign countries, some of which I don't differ, I don't absolutely agree with as far as their form of government or their activity or their social structure. Where was Mr. Keegan or any of the others who criticized when that station has been disseminating information and giving, educating the public unworthwhile projects. And if Mr. Keegan is criticizing because some members on this side of the house utilize those services, I say to them they're at fault and not attempting to do the same on the same basis that we have done it in the past. And then they will have something to criticize when they're denied that opportunity. And I want to say right here and now that with the broader implications of this problem, I am going to fight to a finish any of the old red-baiting activities that I see cropping up from time to time. Just a minute. Mr. Keegan, you've already spoken to Mr. Keegan. You've been up already. And if you could just hang on for a minute. Mr. Quill has a floor. Mr. Chairman, I am against the resolution of Mr. Keegan because it upsets the principles of real Americanism and because I believe it is a further step in the program of gag rule that is being carried out by the reactionaries throughout the length and breadth of this country today. I believe that from the early days, from the days of the revolution in this country, that there was a system here of broad education, that there was an inclination not to draw a smoke screen around the United States and not to lead its inhabitants to believe that the earth is still flat instead of being round. And I further believe that no man since the death of Lenin have done more for the Communist Party in this country than Mr. Keegan have done for it in the past couple of weeks because no matter how many thousands hear the original broadcast, hundreds of thousands of people and especially the unemployed people hear the oration delivered on the good points of the Soviet Union by Mr. Keegan at the last meeting here. I can tell you that I learned an awful lot. I learned that the Soviet Union is the workers' fatherland, that it is one-sixth of the earth, that under communism in Russia there is no nudism, that everybody is wearing force, that there is caviar for all, that it is the greatest land and earth, that's what I learned. And if I can be confused to that extent, how about the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who are listening into the radios throughout the city? I say this is gag rule and I say that we should not go along with it. And I thought, as Brother Bellas said, that this election campaign was over. We saw the forces of reaction use the old red herring of Russian communism prior to election when they hire two trucks in the name of the Communist Party to go out and ask the people of this city in the name of that party to support LaGuardia for mayor. I believe it is a further move to discredit PR and to keep the biggest show in town going. I believe it is the last desperate effort of Tammany Hall to make a comeback and for that reason and on behalf of the honest workers of this city I am opposed. Ian has the floor. Mr. President, I dislike to violate the rule of speaking more than once but I think the reference by speakers to me personally warrants the indulgence of the council. I don't know where Councilman Quill gets his mail so that he's heard from the hundreds of thousands but I didn't expect the gentleman from the Bronx to make a speech supporting my resolution today. Mr. President, what does he do you think? Well, I didn't expect Councilman Quill to make a speech supporting my resolution today and when he said that he learned that the Soviet land was the land of the working man that everybody was well fed and everyone was well clothed I didn't think he was naive enough to believe that script that went over the air and which I complained of because if he's been keeping track of things in this country as well as he's been keeping track of things abroad he must be acquainted with the plight of some of the citizens of our city recorded in the newspapers only a few days ago where people who bought the inland tourist service for travel in Soviet Russia sued and recovered because they were starved on the trip because they were required to sleep in beds that human beings accustomed to American service wouldn't occupy and if Mr. Quill swallowed that as the truth about the land that was being described in that travelogue then what must have happened to the less intelligent people in our city who listened to it and who might now be flocking to the inland tourist or in tourist service because they should have confidence enough to believe that what they heard over the city radio station sponsored by the city of New York and paid for by them at least was the semblance of truth now so far as the gentleman from Queens is concerned I don't know whether his conscience fathers him or not and I recall making no reference to the Americanism or the patriotism of any member of this council and there must have been something in his conscience that bothered him to get up and defend his own Americanism and in one breath defend it by waving the flag and then talking about red baiting and I defy him or any member of the council or of the city government present or past to ever put in my mouth or to ever attribute any utterance to me that smacked of red baiting or that smacks of censorship I don't want anything to do with censorship and I'd be the last man in this body to vote anything that resembled it but so that we might preclude the necessity for it I should like to see the council intelligently decide today to look into the operation of this radio station because if we don't do it ourselves you'll get a censorship from the federal radio communication if many more programs like the one I've read to you go on over our city radio station Mr. Keegan will you yield to a question yes isn't the obvious purpose of this resolution and the investigation that ensues to in some way or other bring pressure on the city's radio station to desist from giving broadcast of the type that the other members of the house do not approve and call so called propaganda for Russia or propaganda for anybody Mr. President I'll answer that question by telling the gentleman that I hope the committee that's appointed will so diligently conduct this investigation and make such findings as will preclude the city radio station from giving out propaganda for anybody because there are several court orders pending against the radio station and its operation now and they have been violated on numerous occasions since the Supreme Court issued its injunction the other night at the inner circle dinner while that was confirmed he put on a very good show now I could hardly take him seriously when he got up the other day and I'm afraid I tweeted him a bit and at the end of the session he came over to me and he said what do you mean I'm very serious about this so I guess today it's necessary to discuss this question seriously now there seem to be two issues involved one was this particular travelogue a communist propaganda an advertisement for communism two if it was what are you going to do about it well in the first case I think that councilman Keegan has already apologized today he has said that he didn't accuse the director of the station of being a communist and I thought that just a minute can I just finish for a second I'll make that clear I'm not you must on the point of order Mr. President I'm not you I raise a point of order what's your point of order Mr. Keegan I object to the gentleman putting anything on my lips that sounds like an apology objection noted Mr. Strauss has the floor I would rather remark is this a communist is this communist propaganda that's the first question well on the list of the national travel club on the board of directors I want to read a few of the names first of all Sir Philip Gibbs this is the advisory board Sir Philip Gibbs is one of the best known of English correspondents and authors and by no stretch of the imagination could be called a communist as far as I know he's never been in Russia I want to read another name Carveth Wells who's a very well known lecturer and I believe explorer Dr. Leo S. Rao who's director general of Pan American Union was former assistant secretary of the treasury and was professor of international law at the University of Pennsylvania Edward Hungerford who's a very well known writer and Mr. Robert H. McBride who is most concerned in the activities of this club Mr. McBride's family have operated for many years and we're a very well known ticket agency and they also now are in the book publishing business and publish very good detective stories perhaps that had something to do with this particular travelogue now I don't think that anybody who would read that travelogue would think that it was communist propaganda but if it was communist propaganda let's just assume that it was just to take Councilman Keegan's resolution seriously what would you do about it a number of years ago some of you may remember there was a book called Lady Chattelie's Lover which was banned from the United States the sales of Lady Chattelie's Lover in the United States were then very large because it was imported by everybody who came back from Europe as a result of its being banned finally the courts got quite sensible about it and they decided that they'd let the book come in and everybody's forgotten Lady Chattelie's Lover just as Mr. Baldwin said if you want to advertise communism ban it that's the best way now I can't get very alarmed about the all this talk about communism a number of years ago I was reading American history and back in the 1770s Thomas Jefferson was accused of being a Jacobin now at that time a Jacobin was a communist at the present time because Jacobins were the Reds in Paris they were the revolution and Alexander Hamilton and his friends at that time thought that Mr. Jefferson was a very dangerous Jacobin and as a matter of fact I hate to remind the members of the Democratic Party but the first clubs that preceded the formation of the Democratic Party were called the Jacobin Clubs by the Federalists who were then the Republicans in other words your predecessors and mine came from the Jacobin Society which was the equivalent of the communists in the 1770s and if you're in doubt about what I say all you have to do is to go and read the book Ambassador a Democratic Ambassador and a former chairman of the Democratic National Convention Ambassador Boris is the present ambassador to Spain President Roosevelt the present ambassador I just want to remind you that well now I was sick a couple of weeks ago as some of you were very kind to remember and during the time that I was sick I happened to do a little studying in Russia myself and I wear it as Councilman Keegan because they've gone out of the room so I'm going to send him a book a book which I read where are you? Councilman Keegan I'm going to send you a book I'm going to give it to you and the book assign you a new company that's right so you're right I know the answer all right you know the answer assignment and utopias about 700 pages long it's written by a well-known newspaper man Mr. Eugene Lyons I have no connection with a publishing firm and I'm not advertising this book except for this occasion but anybody will take the trouble to read that book anybody who's very much concerned about communism I think that they will find that they need no longer be alarmed because if this book is correct and it's the best book that I've ever read on Russia and I've read several I'll say that hold it against me if you want to if you'll read that book you'll find that the Russian government is just about on its last legs unless Mr. Lyons is very wrong and I think that most of the newspaper men who are over there now feels the situation is very serious we don't have to worry about communism because communism has apparently as a type of political organization pretty much fails there are things in it which we probably will learn from from it in other words we are interested in seeing what can be done to equalize the economic income in this country as well enough as in other countries why even Mr. Bruce Barton the other day who's the Republican congressman from my district said that that was really the difficulty in this country now we don't have to hesitate to talk about that the only thing that communism is is a very special system and I don't think that anybody who will read assignment and utopia will be very much concerned in fact they'll encourage people to go on the air and talk about it because that's the worst thing they can do as far as communism is concerned if you throttle it that's the easiest way to promote the thing if that's what you're worried about but this the whole thing is perfectly absurd and I'm quite sure the Councilman Keegan doesn't really take it seriously himself I don't know what even what he's driving at he's mending himself over here because he realizes these gentlemen can make him sound terrible on the air commercials for the most part and that's a good thing I think that our system of radio has been much more successful than the British broadcasting company system of radio which bans advertising that's a matter of opinion I might be wrong but there are certain flaws in the present commercial radio system and I have no hesitancy in saying this although I happen to be connected with radio stations through my family and that is that we haven't had enough educational programs to travel if you want and the reason is that naturally the commercial stations are trying to sell their time and travel logs are not one of the most popular programs so that advertisers don't like to take travel logs in fact Charlie I doubt whether many people heard this program except you you admitted you never listen to the radio so you don't know what the good programs are but the municipal radio station in this city and there are 28 municipal stations in this country at large I believe and there are many university stations they perform a very valuable function and that is they make available non-commercial programs to whoever wants to listen to them and I hope that we I think we've got a new director here at the radio municipal radio station and he's had experience in the radio field and he has a very good reputation and it seems to me before we start investigating this station we ought to give him a chance to show what he can do and I remember that up until about two weeks ago we had an appointee of mayor workers as the director of that station now that might possibly be change in personnel I don't think it has but it might have something to do with a sudden alarm about the management of the city radio station just a minute but it seems to me that we ought to give the new director of the radio station an opportunity to know what he can do now he'll probably the rest of the travelogues I'm sure for the next six months will be up in Sweden and Finland and another safe place is to travel by radio and I'm sure he's going to be very careful about it but I think that he ought to be given a fist because they're saying God he ought to be allowed to come back to Russia once during the next six months give him another chance and for heaven's sakes for the time being go listen that's it Mr. Keegan prepare to withdraw his resolution now oh no Mr. President Sharky has the floor I'd like to ask Mr. Strauss does he know that during Mayor Hyland's administration Mayor Hyland was stopped from using that station by injunctions granted to the Citizens Union Mr. Schifrin appeared on those injunctions and stopped Mayor Hyland from using that station at that time now I think this station should be restricted in its use I wish they could have stopped the Staten Island Piers too Mr. President Mr. Suplers about a month ago there were various questions being asked from the other side of members on this side as to where they were born and to my great gratification I after listening a while my good friend Johnny Bladdick got up and picked out four of us who will be the first victims of the Red Revolution he said that there were perhaps four in this group naming Mr. Baldwin Mrs. Earl Mr. Armstrong and myself who had a right to ask the others where they were born now at first I was highly gratified of that I thought he was putting us up on a pedestal making us members of the Plymouth Rock Roosters and Hens Association and then I figured it out that no it was an insidious attempt on the part of Mr. Bladdick to put us in a group such that we would be the first victims when the Red Revolution comes we the Aristotraps now I want to say this I do believe with Mr. Keegan that there should be some supervision of this station there's no question about it I think it was Washington in one of his speeches and I say this at the risk of Haywood Brune were here of having him smile last week when I spoke of the founding fathers in the Constitution there was a cynical smile on his lips it's too bad isn't it when you do speak sincerely and seriously about our great ancestors that someone some of the our friends seem to think that it's all blah to use a word that very seldom do the Republicans use mainly the Democrats however I want to say this George Washington did say that our country would never fall because of enemies without but we should be on our guard against the enemies within now I want to say this this radio station is not the private property of the mayor not the private property of the supervisor the property of the taxpayers now personally I can tune out that station when I want to I still have that faculty and I assume everybody else can but it's a very good station today comes over in good shape but I want to say this personally with the disturbed conditions in Russia and Italy and Germany I don't see any reason why any gentleman should urge me to go to Russia or Italy or Germany I think we should be somewhat parochial for a while our country is the best country of all I say this at the risk of having some of these gentlemen again smile cynically it is the best country of all let's have our travelogues about our great United States oh that's only a suggestion then again because Mr. Keegan had the temerity to get up here and speak freely as a member of this legislature he's sued for $150,000 I understand he's highly gratified he now can join the four of us that are in this group of risk I want to say that I think that those people are very touchy who sued him I should sue Haywood Broome did you notice what he said about me he said the coalition contains within its ranks a few who are probably less equipped to pass on vital issues than the most indolent old line testimony leader Councilman Settlers from Brooklyn looks and talks exactly like Cotton Ed Smith of South Carolina I have never seen Cotton Ed Smith he may he may be a very handsome gentleman if so then Mr. Broome meant it as a compliment then he says by some error in his compass he is seated with the reform wing of the council I suppose he consulted with Johnny Vladeck and that is a hint to me is that right Brother Vladeck now I might sue Haywood Broome because he writes these articles but of course I realize that the man has to make his living he's got to buy a new fur coat sometime and those things must be taken into consideration of course I do feel that we were like the farmer who warmed the viper in his bosom remember how enthusiastically we extended the privileges of the floor to him and then he writes this article sting us I wish he were here because I would like to know have him know that I feel very indignant about this I haven't slept since he wrote this well now let me say this I feel that this discussion is good for this place I think that those in charge of this station should guard themselves very very carefully against allowing even in an indirect way anything to creep into what goes over the radio that may be have a tinge of communism or Hitlerism or Mussolini because we're against all three don't ever forget that this is the only country where more than one party can be on the ballot and if anybody wants to urge me to go over to Russia why he'll have to urge me 24 hours out of the day I won't go because why this is a nice country here we are a nice little club gathered together once a week but seriously speaking I do suggest I realize Mr. Keegan feels very strongly about this I think that this sensitiveness should be kept in mind by the station I think I think that Mr. Keegan he doesn't want to withdraw his resolution I think it should be held over for a week or two better see if this station won't meet you halfway if they will begin to give some consideration to the feelings of those of us who are really outraged by conditions in Russia Italy and Germany and I mean that we're to be considered yes certainly thanks for your kind attention gentlemen Mr. Bob surface do you yield a question certainly the gentleman said that he wouldn't go to Russia but I wondered what he meant by that because that's a large order that he won't travel anywhere but in this country I was going to ask him if he'd ever been to the zoo over here in the zoo you had to look at the animals in the zoo well you know I may say this and answer that question in 1891 in 1891 in the isle of Java there was a skeleton discovered the skeleton of a you speak of the zoo and this reminds me of the Pithecanthropus Erectus and that I have seen the rebuilt body of that animal it was halfway between the gorilla and man it had a brain that was midway between the two and incidentally may I say that when they rebuilt that animal and they discovered and studied its antecedents they found that it had quite a paunch and at a distance it looked as though it was wearing a mangy fur overcoat and when I saw the guest of honor last week I was wondering I was wondering whether he was the modern prototype of the Pithecanthropus Erectus because the scientists tell us that that animal was afflicted with a disease the disease was known as Tachowetes Scribendi which translated into the tongue of the common people and we're all common people but of course I've made research in this matter means an itch for writing and I noticed that the this gentleman who reminded me of the what did I call him the Pithecanthropus Erectus has an itch for writing now is that an answer to your question Mr. Paul the gentleman asked dear question and referred now is not in case you should misinterpret my question what I'm getting at is that with what is the name of that answer well if it were in the zoo wouldn't you like to go and see it well I have seen one as I say within the last week what a large I would like to see it again Mr. John has the floor Mr. Chairman and members of the council I'm wondering if we can't get down to real business now after having a comedy for an hour and a half which I understand is being displayed over the radio that we're objecting to no more discussion I'm ready to vote and I'm not ready to vote for an investigation I'm glad it was mentioned that the gentleman who is in charge of the radio now Mr. Novick is a righteous man religiously inclined and may I say he's a member of the same part of I belong the American Labor Party I'm hopeful that some of the people on the other side of the room will listen in more attentively and they will learn an awful lot more about the travels the understanding of people and how people come to the front through listening to some of the remarks of some of the people of the American Labor Party who will speak over this station I remember quite clearly that when I came in here for the first three or four weeks the gentlemen on the other side of the room were very inquisible where some of the people on this side of the room were born and I also remember that one of the men on the other side wrapped the American flag around him on three or four occasions and another member over there said to Mr. Bloddick what flag and otherwise not meaning he meant the American flag was wrapped around Mr. Bloddick but insinuating it was the red flag now if anything should have struck out from this radio station it should have been the farce the ideas that those on the other side had that nobody but them knew what to do nobody but them knew how to represent the people and on many occasions they said that they as Democrats were the only one that knew how to handle and had done things for years for the people who work and just because some on this side together with those that joined with us desire to do something really and represent directly the working people in the name of the American Labor Party that is why we were taunted and that was why some of our people was asked where they were born I say to you over there cut your nonsense out the people that did listen to this station and didn't agree with those remarks or did I am sure will not agree with the remarks of you people and those who have taken up all the time this afternoon when it could be decided immediately by a vote and I call with a question roll call Mr. Blodick may I speak I'll be very brief first of all I wish to state that to my knowledge the mayor took cover the station only in January of this year the whole management of the station was in the hands of appointees of Mayor Walker until a month ago this this program to which councilman Keegan objects was arranged for by the director appointed by a previous by Mayor Walker so were the other members of the staff of the station who had anything to do with the program Mr. Novick or any of the other people who were appointed since the mayor took cover the station had nothing to do with this problem I think this is very important to remember secondly I thought that councilman Keegan is too intelligent not to know that all travelogs are bunk by their very nature a travelogue is propaganda assuming so did you ever hear a travelogue about any country not displaying a vote that looks as good as the folder and I haven't as yet seen a country that is as good as the travelogue which covers that country this is in the game I agree with councilman Keegan that that description of Russia in the words of Mark Twain was slightly exaggerated but it was a travelogue I don't think the station should give this kind of programs I hope it won't but the administration is not to be charged with this program travel in itself is not a bad thing even I think that perhaps councilman surplus would become even a better American if that is possible if you could actually compare the United States with some other countries as I did nothing wrong in travel it's very educational very important and if you could have travelogues that would tell the truth they would be also very constructive but we can't have such look at the composition of this travel bureau it's composed of people who represent Japan and Hawaii and Panama and everything else they represent their countries they have to show only the good side if there is one this is why I think that if there is any motive behind this resolution it is not justified I fully agree with councilman surplus that Mr. Novick should be given a chance to show what the station can do a municipal station can do a lot of things that a commercial station will not do I can speak with authority because I was instrumental in founding in this city a station which is not commercial a small station which has rendered some very excellent service to the community there is no WNYC should not be in a position to render good service and now that the mayor has taken it over I am quite sure that it will be a good efficient station as a number of other departments have become good and efficient since Mayor LaGuardia took it over this is why I intend to vote no on this position Mr. Keegan May I compliment Councilman Armstrong for his ability to sit in the first place the only speaker on this side of the aisle on this debate with the exception of a very brief comment by Councilman Sharkey was myself and my opening remarks were as brief as I could make them and the extenuations of them were warranted by what was said by the gentlemen on the other side of the aisle and eight of those gentlemen spoke except for that reference I don't think anything that Councilman Armstrong said had the house and may I remind Councilman Vlade that I'm acquainted with the travelogue literature and I have been the recipient of a lot of boarding house advertising that desired to bring you where there was fishing and swimming and boating and golfing and like himself I never found a boat and I never found a hotel or a boarding house that had anything like the vista that its literature attempted to portray to me but that's running far away from the issue he wouldn't recommend that the city of New York at the expense of the taxpayers pay for travelogue literature or boarding house literature that wouldn't be an exact portrayal of something that the city taxpayers were interested in and for that reason I submit that since he wouldn't do that no more should he be inclined to support programs on the city radio station paid for at the expense of the taxpayers of this city which he himself concedes grossly exaggerate the picture they attempt to portray move for the question roll call how come an armstone Baldwin no fellas no Blake Mr. Drake I don't see what we're going to get to the station WNYC that it's necessary that some restrictions or some effort be made to direct the affairs of station WNYC and the further fact that it is a city agency I am frank to tell you that as far as I'm concerned I have no objection to the investigation I can't see what harm it will do or what good so under the circumstances I'm going to go along with the motion and vote aye Carroll aye Cashmore aye Christensen no Conrad no Dearing aye Nijivani aye Mrs. Oyle no Hollander no Keegan aye Kinsley Mr. Chairman I appreciate my ring excuse I'm amazed the present attendance please when an attempt is made to protect American principles to accuse those who seek to defend those principles of being red baiters or else stooges of Tammany Hall if Tammany Hall stands for the principles of Americanism I I for one say that the old hall is not dead yet despite the predictions of Mr. Quill we have had in the past few weeks the amazing spectacle and even the Republicans in this house will admit that it is the most damning indictment of this administration that has yet been brought the appointment of an avowed communist to public office known words need be ordered by me to condemn that appointment able and competent men are now bringing it before the governor of this state and it seems that the Americans who have served in the war to protect this country's principles have a very good case against the appointor borough President Isaac now you might defend the appointment of Gerst if you can you will be ready to stand for the principles of communism when you can bore from within and when you cannot let us have revolution by violence this statement that was made over WNYC last week in which Mr. Keegan has furnished me with a copy of is not all of caviar and furs but there is a very damning indictment of those who believe that creeds and races have a right to live together without the necessity of being coerced into agreement by firing squads why Mr. Brandt is quoted here as saying speaking of coming into Russia from the east I saw how old superstitions colorful though they were bred misunderstanding everywhere the natural feeling of brotherhood has been retarded by alien creeds and superstitions only in Soviet Russia did I feel that a sincere effort has been made to reconcile the many cultures for the good of all Mr. Kuff has stated but how is this being done do you mean these cultures have been destroyed no quite the reverse each racial group in the US SR has been given fair treatment each culture has been developed but in harmony with the many others if I wasted as much time as you did here today with your clock press around the defenders I'd apologize to you I'm speaking once more as a fellow who believes in the principles of the flag under which I live and I won't listen to any half-hearted attempts by you to condemn me because you care I think you should have it courtesy to hear me another couple of minutes Soviet Russia said Mr. Brandt is the world's new frontier a super America in the making and the front pages of every daily paper tell of 21 more who have been brought into agreement by the coercion of secret service officials and the threat of a firing squad and if you don't agree with Russia you'll never have a chance to disagree because you'll be under six good feet of sod the following day how can anybody come in here and seek to condone that sort of stuff what is this a travelogue no it is merely an attempt to infiltrate into the minds of those who might be listening in the idea that Russia is all harmony and peace that Russia is good food and good clothing that if you go to Russia or Russia comes to us we here who live under the American flag may have the wrongs of today remedied by bringing the communistic principles into our country you've put one man in public office and you wouldn't dare vote against that appointment you wouldn't dare seek to utter a word against it if you allow this to go on you're going to destroy the principles of a very good American practice of freedom of speech WNYC has a place in the radio waves of New York but it certainly despite your giggles Mr. Strauss must remember and his directorate must remember that the taxpayers of this station of New York pay for this station they are committed to Americanism and if those who favor communistic propaganda want to exercise their right of free speech let them not do it at the expense of the taxpayer I think Mr. Keegan is 100% correct in bringing this to the attention of the people of New York and I think that this investigation will show that if correction is needed that we and the council shall properly direct WNYC to keep red propaganda off the air and any other dictatorial propaganda no matter from what country it comes I vote aye Nugent there has been some reference made to the reactionaries on this side of the house and among other names I understood was used Tammany well I'm a member of Tammany Hall and I'm proud of it and I can recall only a short while ago while perhaps not speaking on the resolution at this time I will just go right to it in a few minutes I can recall a short while ago when that great little island across the seas fighting for its freedom this so-called reactionary Tammany Hall was the place in the borough of Manhattan subscribed over $80,000 for that grand cause and it wasn't given by the men in the upper brackets it was just the common ordinary members of the rank and file of that organization I can recall a little before that when that great so-called country of Russia was in distress Tammany Hall came across and it wasn't given by the men in the upper brackets but the rank and file of that so-called reactionary organization now I hold no brief for Mr. Novick or the head of this particular station I think and I I'm almost positive in my humble opinion that the resolution offered by Mr. Keegan is a worthwhile one I think it's about time as Mr. Seifler said that we of America have great scenes great mountains and valleys throughout here even in New York City we have wonderful buildings why not bring that to the attention of the people who wish to hear this particular station Mr. President I think that this resolution is a worthwhile one and I'm going to vote for it and I'll vote aye Houseman Quill I just want to stay open in my vote I don't want to delay and I'm not going to go in again to the question of Tammany Hall not to the question of Mr. Kinley's chicken coop revolution no on the motion I'll pass on from the question of the amount of money that Tammany Hall subscribed for to free the Irish people by saying that I have reason to believe and I am not sure that one tenth of one percent of it never got as far as the Irish revolution it made its way into the ten boxes of the city now let me pass on to the question of Russia I believe again we shouldn't worry so much about Russia about the good points of Russia and about the bad points of Russia let us try once more in the name of the American flag to get together and make our own America a much greater America let us go out and sweep the sidewalks of New York clean and let us not try to throw dirt in other countries as long as we still have in America places like Golly Bridge where it was brought out in the Senate investigating comedy the employer had his own private symmetry for to bury the dead and let us not go into the question of the rape or the lynching that is still widespread in some of our states let us try to get together to educate our people to build a greater America under our American flag and for that reason I vote no on the resolution Councilman Quinn Jansen Aye Schick Aye Sharkey Mr. Sharkey has the floor misspent funds of Tammany Hall or anything else I'm concerned because the people of this city are paying for this radio I think it should be curtailed it should report only city activities connected with city departments and city government that's the only question here I hear some men here discussing Americanism and just a few days ago I read a report in the paper of them circulating petitions for a investigation in this city now I don't know how they can tie up these two situations I vote aye Spelman Mr. President I ask leave to explain my vote let me start by saying that I deprecate as much as anybody in this chamber the tactics which are commonly and properly called red bait I think that it's a disgusting performance and I quite agree with some of the gentlemen who spoke before that in the period of many years last past particularly this last decade every measure which has had any liberal tendency has been immediately surrounded by this mysterious aura which is called communism but I'd like to call to the attention of this chamber the fact that in a period ending about seven years ago and going back 15 years before that when liberal measures weren't produced such as the workman's compensation law in New York state and the first attempt to limit hours of labor that those measures were branded by the same reactionaries but in those days they used to call them Tammany Hall measures because they were being reduced by such people as Alfred Smith and Bob Wagner and I say on this floor that when the time comes when on either side of the house we have to discuss measures by calling each other names we have reached a pretty sad path and let me add that the names are no more tasty because they are issued and stated in an accent original with the author when he doesn't even pay his income taxes and show his Americanism the time has come in this chamber Mr. President for us to have emblazoned over your head so that all of us may see and spread in the back so that you may see though I think you need it less than most of us a slogan which will say that that facile decent thing which was once called being a gentleman still exists in this country and to have anybody arrogate to himself the privilege of condemning a measure by the name Tammany Hall or having the temerity to stand up and say again in an accent original to himself I represent the Irish American borders who said so who said so I yield to plenty of questions now my statements now are a direct explanation Mr. President of my own personal vote in this matter I am not going to vote for this resolution because it is alleged that it's Soviet or communist propaganda in this station I'm not going to vote for it anymore on that ground and I would vote for it if it were alleged that it were fascist or Hitlerite propaganda but I am going to express now and I think I'm not overstaying my leave when I say to you Mr. President that I'm combining with the explanation of my vote the time I would have consumed if I'd risen to a question of personal privilege I hope you'll extend me that courtesy I say this that the words Tammany Hall technically applied apply to only three members of this council their names are Carroll Nugent and Spelman I say to you that we as representatives of the democracy of Manhattan are properly and correctly branded Tammany Hall men I say to you that the statement of one of the gentlemen on this side the other day that our sister organization in another county has been trying to prevent Tammany from crossing the bridge shows you how insular and parochial if you will Tammany Hall is but I say this as well that you cannot no matter how clever your machinations and no matter how to quote others tub thumping is indulged in you cannot brand a true Tammany Hall man such as I am and I plead guilty to it on the ground that that plea of guilty is a demurrer the answer is what of it you can't brand my actions as anything but proper or improper in accordance with the way I vote on measures I say to you Mr. President and if this be disclosing party principle I assure you I am not breaking a confidence that we who are the representatives of the Manhattan democracy and who are elected from Manhattan as democrats have received instructions from Tammany Hall and they were these you're three young men you've got a chance for a career we're not going to ruin your career by giving you orders other than to vote on your consciences and if you will watch what we've done so far I see that you'll see that even among the three of us there have been splits an opinion that I have gone with the other side and some of the others have gone with the other side and we fought against members on our own side here because our conscience is so dictated even though it hurt us at times to go against members of our own party let's have an armistice on this calling of names let's cut it out let's get down and debate measures on their merits and let privileges that human beings won't give to us I state to you Mr. President although I am not of that extraction that the Irish American voters of our city would be ashamed were they led to believe that any person could claim for himself their sole representation I say to you that that's the way the trouble started in Germany I say to you that that's the way the trouble starts anywhere else and I add as well that if proportional representation is going to mean that you vote for a man because he's an Irishman or a Jew or a Protestant or anything else you're prostituting the system of American government and the man who's been here not long enough to learn that the Constitution of the United States not only says that there shall be free speech but says as well that we shall be responsible for what our speech brings forward and responsible for the abuse of free speech license and free speech licentiousness of language is no more permitted in a council chamber than it is in the realms where gentlemen and ladies speak together and I hope that after a short time the training we're able to give in this chamber to members who lack that quality of gentlemanliness may make up for the lack of training they have thus far had in their lives I vote aye House Councilman Kinsey in his address explaining his vote said that he was voting to protect freedom of speech in this country just how he reached that conclusion I don't know but I would like to remind him that many years ago the first man to crusade for freedom of speech was a man named Bolte and that he said I disagree with every word that he is saying but I'll defend to the death his right to say it and that's why I'm going to vote no in this resolution Mr. President may I explain my vote I intend to vote no on this because I don't think the language used is as extreme in its implications as Mr. Keegan believes it is however I would like to say that I intend in the future to listen to WNYC and I will watch to see if the station is in the future going to exercise a discretion which it perhaps may not have exercised to the full in the past may I want to say this also those of us here who are foreign born are the best examples of the opportunities that this country gives to anybody and they should be the last to assume to change our customs and habits they should take the same position that I take when I visit somebody's home I don't assume to tell him to rearrange his pictures on the wall he knows how he wants his home and I'm a newcomer and I want to say that those who have come to our country from foreign lands will exhibit the highest Americanism if they observe tact and discretion and propriety and try to conform themselves to the customs that they find here I vote no Congressman Vladek I'm sorry to have to rise again on this question as I have already said all I had to say about the merits of this resolution except that the tone of the debate I think shows very clearly that it's not only this resolution we are discussing we are discussing fundamentals the question of where one was born does not come in here I think it's as incumbent upon natives to be gentlemen as it is upon people who are not natives culture and breeding have no country Mr. Surplus and I'd like to see Mr. Surplus give this advice years back years back to some people who used to stand on the corners of the city of New York and try to trip everybody who passed by who didn't look to them as belonging to their club or their neighborhood this doesn't bear on the discussion at all but there is something in this discussion which is malicious and I want to call your attention to it here is Councilman Spellman making a plea for well for decent debate and I agree with him all matters can be debated decently but he himself availing himself of the privileges of the floor makes a slurder upon a fellow councilman without the slightest foundation and without stopping for one moment to think whether what he says is true and I am rising because Councilman Quill has already voted Councilman Spellman Quill did not pay any income tax because until July of last year he never earned more than $30 a week I suppose you cannot understand how a man could work as he did for $5 and $8 a week trying to organize the transport workers union I will nobody owes anybody any apology on this floor we were elected by the people of the city of New York and the people of the city of New York come from all lands from all continents from all backgrounds from all kinds of tradition and training we represent New York we are all New York and if anything it is the people represented by Mr. Quill and by Mr. Hollander and by Mr. Nympha and myself who dug the people's subways laid the city streets built the city's buildings and have been doing the work of the city when we speak of Tammany Hall we don't speak of persons we speak of the history of the city which is incontrovertible which is in the records which is written in the faces and the buildings of the city we are speaking of a political machine which for over a century has looted the riches of the city for the benefit of a small group of people we don't mean Alfred Smith or Senator Wagner or President Roosevelt we voted for them and we shall continue voting for them but we are talking of those people who have made politics their business who took the taxpayers money which is so dear to your heart in order to build up private contractors private politicians speculators looters gamblers question of privilege Mr. Carroll he is not explaining his vote but he is going into the history of Tammany Hall he is attempting to go into the salary that Councilman Quill has made and therefore he was not applicable to pay an income tax when as a matter of fact now in the brokerage account of $16,000 and I should think that a man with a brokerage account of $16,000 now right at this minute should pay some income tax and that in itself is a justification that more than $30 a week was earned by Mr. Quill and I say to you Mr. President for nation of his vote and not go into the history of Tammany Hall to the earning capacity of Mr. Quill because if you take that into consideration you must mention also that at Chislam and somebody else Chislam and Shackman down on Lower Broad Way they now hold an account in Mr. Quill's name to the tune of $16,000 Having stated your point of high personal privilege the chair declared it's well taken you may have the floor Do you desire to speak? Mr. President has no last to give Mr. Carroll a floor because Mr. Bladick is on roll for And I submit the chair is out of order Keegan's point is well taken you may not have the floor Does the chair also rule that the chair himself is out of order Mr. Bladick has ruled I now ask the chair to rule that the chair is out of order and given Mr. Carroll the floor Mr. Bladick has the floor That is not a response to my request The point of order Mr. Baldwin point is well taken Mr. President and gentlemen of the council I am sorry to have felt compelled to say things which are not pleasing to all of you I had had no such intention of doing so I was provoked by the statement of Mr. Spellman and I wish to say in order to avoid the repetition of such discussions in the future let us stop teach each other manners we have we have the manners we were trained in one of the things that I would like to say of myself that I have never meant and never mean any personal reflection on any member of the council but I don't like to have members of the council get up a lecturer's law and decency and manners just by the sound of nice words so far this side of this body has nothing to apologize for and we are not going to I think that this resolution is ridiculous we are not accomplishing anything we are just engendering that sea of bigotry and intolerance which is engulfing the world today and in which the United States fortunately is still an island we are trying to arouse the very same passions the very same prejudices which are now pulling Europe to the brink of ruin we shouldn't do that we can get along nothing threatens this country except our own ignorance I vote no the resolution is lost excuse me excuse me Mr. Kinsley Mr. Kagan the chair announces the resolution is carried 14 in the affirmative 12 in the negative and will instruct the clerk to forward the resolution of the mayor for his signature there's nothing before the house Mr. Quill the mayor the mayor the mayor and the mayor no question of the mayor when we appoint a committee we don't have to ask the mayor consent mr. no if this comes to you without the mayor's approval you don't have to obey any section of the resolution general orders Do you agree with that? No. Just a minute, just a minute. This is a resolution, Mr. Kinsley, which must go to the mayor for his approval or disapproval. Every local law or resolution certified by the clerk of the council after its passage by the council shall be presented to the mayor for approval. Section 38A, local laws and resolutions. May I just make this for the purposes of the record so we have it clearly understood? The council has the right under the charter to appoint committees under Section 43. It would be an absolutely and it is an absurd construction of our powers to think that any one man can be a dictator. Now, Mr. LaGuardia is very much embarrassed, I understand, by Mr. Isaac's action in appointing Mr. Gerson. And I hope now that you will... Sit down, Mr. Kinsley. Lovely, wonderful, make more noise, please. We had enough of that already. Mr. Kinsley, in a minute I'll appeal... You are embarrassing the mayor very much. I'll embarrass you in a minute. Mr. Kinsley, you're out of order. Mr. Kinsley, you're out of order. Oh, my dear man, I can always appear for the ruling of the chair. What is that, Mr. Kegan? I submit, Mr. President, that it's my resolution and it was drafted under Section 43 of the charter, which reposes the sole power in the council to make that committee appointment and that the resolution is adopted for the Rules Committee to appoint that committee and neither you nor the mayor has anything to do with signing or approving it. Local laws and resolutions. Well, I now appeal to the ruling of the chair. Local laws and resolutions. I just... Go on to the... I'm the mayor ruling. Well, everybody else heard you say it had to go to the mayor. I directed the clerk to forward to the mayor for signature. Was that a ruling or not? Or is it just an idle thought of yours? Mr. President... And I've also told Mr. Novick that the resolution has no force in effect unless it comes to him with the mayor's signature. Mr. Baldwin? You have a point of information. Now, Mr. President, on the point of what? And I have a point of information. Mr. President, the point of information, this resolution goes to the Committee on Rules, I understand. Absolutely. It's just been adopted. It goes to the Committee on Rules under the Chancellor resolution. Mr. President, there's a resolution. Mr. President... I'm opposed to the resolution. I'm opposed to any... Mr. President, I'm opposed to any... Now, reason... Doesn't the resolution call for an investigation? ...directing the Committee on Rules of the Council to designate a committee of five members of the Council to examine into the management of Station WNYC. And then what? It goes to the Committee on Rules to appoint this committee of five, sir. And then where does the mayor come into it? The mayor doesn't come in on this at all. I have nothing to do with it. Well, I claim he does. Well, now, I resent your action in instructing an employee of this city with respect to any of his duties or any of his obligations after an affirmative vote by the members of this Council. I thought you were. And I think you're going a bit far afield of even the assumed powers that you've been trying to presume for yourself in attempting to override the majority vote of the members of this body. And I'd like to invite your attention to the Charter, under which Section 43, the powers under which this committee was appointed, have no responsibility to you or the mayor or anyone else but the members of this Council. Mr. Keegan, I don't expect you to agree with me on everything. I'm sorry that there have been a few things I could agree with the chairman on since he took that gavel in his hand. This is a very definite thing in which the chair must recognize he's wrong because a member of your own side who has a little more legislative experience than yourself has just invited it to your attention. Now, I ask you now to instruct Mr. Novick, the director of the radio station, to disregard the instructions that you've just given him. Mr. Novick, don't pay any attention to what I said. Local laws and resolutions. I've been done in a long while, Mr. Novick. Well, no, no, just before. Mr. Keegan, will you yield to Mr. Kinsley? I'm British, Mr. President. He's in your hand. At the delicate mercy, Mr. Chairman, of yourself, I place myself. Mr. Novick, I place myself. And I just want to get this understood now. Do you intend to rule that this body has no power by resolution to appoint a committee? And I hope the stenographer will get this because it may enlighten the appellate division, because it must go up on the agreed statement of facts. Do you now rule... Do you now... Prefer it to committee on rules. The chair has reversed himself. You can have anything you want, Mr. Kinsley. At least we accomplished our point, and I wish the record to indicate that. No, Mr. Kinsley, you haven't. By Mr. Kinsley. Yeah, committee on rules. By Mr. Christensen. A local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to standards for commodities and services. General welfare, Mr. President. Wait a minute. Let's see what we're doing. General welfare. General welfare. General welfare. By Councilman Hollander and Cashmore. Resolution disapproving the plan of the Works Progress Administration to suspend the WPA work on Board of Education projects during the summer months of this year. Good. General welfare. General welfare today. For today. General welfare today. What resolution is on? General welfare. Is there any objection? So, audit. By Mr. Sharkey. Local law in relation to illuminated signs. Welfare. General welfare. By Councilman Sharkey. Surplus and Cashmore by request. Resolution requesting the Board of Estimates to return to the Capital Outlay Budget various sums omitted from the Board of Education Budget to the year 1938 for the... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...