Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. First, a special announcement. Starting today, the Roundtable is broadcast at its new time, 1.30 Eastern Daylight Time. Please remember the new Roundtable broadcast time of 1.30 Eastern Daylight Time. Today, the Roundtable discusses The American Soldier, taking part are Carl I. Hovland, psychologist, Yale University, Samuel Stauffer, sociologist, Harvard University, formerly of the University of Chicago, and Robert K. Merton, sociologist, Columbia University. And now to open today's Roundtable, we present Mr. Merton. Today, we are discussing the American Soldier. The importance of this needs little comment. What I hope we'll learn is what we now know about how to make a better soldier, how to develop a better information policy in the Army, how to improve race relations in the Army. In short, what we now know about how to make a better Army and perhaps a better society. All through the last war, the Army maintained a research branch of about 50 social scientists and several hundred assistants. They interviewed over 600,000 men and women in the armed forces. They conducted social and psychological experiments. Now, the research branch has published its findings in four massive volumes. Now, Mr. Stauffer, you headed up the research branch during the war. What did all this research work amount to? Well, Mr. Merton, it's a little hard to say, and I'm probably a biased witness on the subject. But I'm inclined to think that the kind of research we did in the Army has been proved to be applicable in industry and in education, and it'll help make a democracy work more efficiently. Of course, there are skeptics about the kind of things we did. One of the most interesting skeptics revealed his head just the other day when Red Star, the official journal of the Soviet Army, paid us a compliment of saying that in serving our bourgeois masters, we were doing very ridiculous things for a democracy. We're rather proud of that review. Mr. Stauffer, you have the good fortune to know it. You're read widely. Mr. Hovland, you were director of the experimental division. What would you say was the importance of your experimental work in the Army? I think, Mr. Merton, if the results we obtained in the Army will have a great deal of implication for civilian education and training, since the problems the Army faced in instructing millions of men and in communicating information to them are the same problems that are currently being faced in civilian education and in training. Mr. Hovland, I hope, Carl, we'll have occasion to hear a good deal more about that. At the moment, I wonder if there are any examples of research work during the last war that you consider have some great significance for American society today. Sam, I understand that the total demobilization as it occurred in the last war was in large part based upon some research findings. Is that an exaggeration? Mr. I suppose it isn't. The Army faced an unusual problem at the end of the last war, and it's the one that affected every person in the United States. The problem was this, that the war with Germany was over before the end of the war with Japan. In other words, we were fighting two wars in tandem, as it were. Well, the problem was how to get rid of the soldiers who were fighting, who weren't needed to fight the Japanese war, and how to do it fairly. How to discharge these soldiers in such a way as to still have an efficient army left to fight Japan. That was a really tough problem, one that the Army had never faced in its history. And so we were asked to try to find out what would be the best policy for the discharge of soldiers in such a way that nobody could accuse them of being, accuse our, the methods of being unfair. Do you mean, Sam, that research was being called on here to develop what seems to be a kind of democratic policy for demobilization? I suppose that's what you might call it, the democratic policy. Uh, they, uh, there were different, there were some opposition to the idea that you should ask the soldiers, uh, by any methods, whether or not, uh, the, who should be discharged first. But, uh, uh, that opposition was thrashed out one way or another, and, uh, a very careful scientific study was devised. It wasn't a simple study. Well, how did this, uh, occur? Did you simply go out and ask men what they thought and put an enlisted man in the place of a general's role? Well, we had a little experience in just asking an individual soldier here and there what he thought. For instance, if we asked a soldier about the medical services, why we might find a soldier would say, oh, they're no good pills and iodines for, for everybody. But, uh, when we actually did a study to representative cross-section of such soldiers, we'd find that maybe 90 or 95 percent of them would think that the med, say the medical service was excellent, as good as in civilian life or better. So you needed to take scientifically selected cross-section samples of the population. That's just what we did. Uh, we went to all over the world. We went to France. We went to Okinawa. We went all around everywhere. And, uh, with our research teams and interviewed carefully selected samples. And then we, we put the material together and worked out what became known as the point system. And this point system was based on what the soldiers themselves told us, uh, they thought would be the right order of discharge. For instance, uh, we counted the, uh, number of, uh, combat campaigns they'd been in and length of time overseas and so on. Now, this combat thing was a real problem because there was a, quite a good many people, including some generals, who felt the army shouldn't let any of its experienced combat soldiers out. Well, this would amount to, uh, leaving a, uh, terrific situation for future combat. If you did, uh, demobilize the experienced soldiers, wouldn't you be left with, uh, a group of green troops who couldn't carry the battle forward? Carl? Mr. Hovland's got some data right on that point. I think it'd be interesting. Well, we found that it, contrary to expectation, it isn't necessarily the experienced combat veteran that, in the opinion of their leaders, makes the best soldier. We interviewed in Germany and in other positions, platoon leaders who had had a lot of combat experience and asked them about which of their men were really the best fighters. They reported that their best men were the men with only a few weeks of combat experience, not the veteran with long months of experience. So that your research on demobilization didn't really run into that problem after you conducted the inquiry? Well, we ran into the problem, and as a matter of fact, we ran into it in reverse because, uh, the, uh, we probably didn't, uh, give quite enough points, uh, to the, uh, combat veterans. But on the whole, it worked out pretty well. And, uh, although a lot of people complained about the point system for discharge, they thought that the people got out of the army too slowly. Actually, the point system didn't have anything to do about how rapidly they got out of the army. It merely decided who would get out in what order, who would get out first, second, and so on. And, uh, even months after the, uh, uh, demobilization had been going on, we found that about four out of five of the men thought the point system was a good idea. Of course, some still complained, but we only tried to work out a system that would be best for the largest number. Well, if this system of demobilization was such a good idea, was it confined to the army? Well, it, uh, was, uh, used in other, uh, branches of the service some, somewhat different methods. But, uh, the Marine Corps, it happens, they used exactly the same system we'd worked out in the army. And when the Marine Corps, uh, copies the army, I think that's something. Well, that's probably the biggest single testimonial to research in the last war that we've yet found. Now, Carl, you were saying something a little while ago about your work on education and communication in the army. Did any of that, uh, have implications that, uh, we ought to review here? I think some of it would be quite interesting to talk about. I feel that the army made a very strenuous effort to make our army a well-informed army and to tell them something about the background of the war and the events that led up to our participation in it. Well, Carl, that's very interesting at the present moment. We've all been reading newspaper articles which claim that, our soldiers have not been informed of our aims in the Korean conflict. What was the story in the last war? In the last war, the army prepared a lot of materials, both in the form of discussion groups and through the use of films to make our army a well-informed army. For example, they prepared a series of films, uh, under the direction of Frank Capra on why we fight, which told the story of the origins of the war and the part that our various allies played in it. Well, I know that Frank Capra makes magnificent films, but what effect did this have? Did you discover that? We studied the reactions of the men to these films, not only in terms of their interest in them, but also in terms of their changes in opinion and attitude. We found these films were very effective in conveying information about the war. They weren't nearly so successful, however, when we got into problems of changing their attitudes toward allies as a result of seeing the part that some of our allies played. Well, did it make any difference how, uh, the information officers in the armies went about their job? Did, uh, one procedure operate differently from another? What did you find on that? We found that some methods, of course, are a lot better than others, and one of our jobs was really to find out which methods would work best. One study, for example, was devoted to the problem of when is it best to tell just one side of a story, and when is it best to give both sides? Didn't Dr. Goebbels have the answer to that, Carl? Goebbels may have had the answer for the less well-educated people and with totalitarian methods, but for an American army with a wide range of abilities, he certainly did not have the whole answer. Well, how did this work then in terms of, uh, its effects on different kinds of men? What we found was that men who were rather uninformed about issues actually learned a great deal more if only one side of the material was presented. That's the Goebbels line, I take it. That's the Goebbels line for the less well-informed men. However, when the better informed men were presented with materials of this sort, they felt that it was quite unfair and one-sided. They profited a great deal more from a give-and-take discussion of both alternatives. Well, it certainly should give us all some hope that out-and-out propaganda isn't as powerful as some people think some of the time. Do you know, in reviewing these studies, you, you tell us what you found, and you indicate how useful some of these results have been. The question inevitably comes up, uh, just how valid are your, your methods of study? Why should they be believed? Why do the results need to be taken seriously? Is there anything, Sam, that you did during these, uh, researches to deal with what ought to have been a pretty, uh, difficult and perhaps even embarrassing problem? We had plenty of embarrassing problems, Bob. But, uh, one of the, uh, uh, things that our, uh, that skeptics or critics, uh, of social science research say is that you can't make predictions. Well, it just happens that they're dead wrong. You can make predictions. You can make them pretty well. We made a number of fairly successful predictions. Want me to tell you about one of them? Tell about the GI Bill predictions, Sam. Well, uh, way back in the, uh, early in the war, uh, the, uh, some people were planning to set up this GI Bill, which would pay for veterans education after the war. And one of the questions was, how much would such a bill cost? So we interviewed a representative, carefully selected cross-section of soldiers throughout the world about their plans to, to, to, for education after the war. And on the basis of a rather intricate set of questions, we were able to make an estimate of about how many men would take advantage of a GI Bill if it were passed. How did the estimate actually work out? Well, pretty well. We were correct within about two percent. And that's not a bad error when you consider that several years, uh, uh, elapsed until before the, we were able to check up on our prediction. No, I shouldn't imagine we'd start apologizing for the last two percent. That means then that, uh, the universities in this country, in a way, uh, could have been well prepared for the actual influx that occurred after the war, and that social science could have told them so, and in fact did. Well, we did a number of things of that general type. Some various government agencies, the Department of Agriculture and others were very much concerned about what men were going to do after the war in terms of various planning. They wanted to know how many go back to the farm, for example, and how many would want to go to this part of the country or that. Uh, they, uh, we, uh, so we asked men where they want to live after the war, and we found that a very large number said they wanted to go to California, and sure enough, they did. It, we actually, we checked up after the war and found out our predictions from what the men themselves said were quite accurate on, uh, such subjects. Well, these are predictions which involved behavior after the war on the part of men who were in the fighting. Did you ever have occasion to be able to make predictions that the army could use while the war is in progress? Well, there's several different kinds of predictions of that sort. Uh, one of the interesting ones there was in terms of, uh, how men or how outfits would do in combat. Now, that's a pretty tough one. I don't believe that studies like that had been done before. And we interviewed carefully selected cross sections of, uh, soldiers before they went across, uh, the channel on D-Day to, uh, invade Normandy. We found that some companies, uh, had many men in them, who, uh, many more men than other companies who were complaining about this and complaining about that. Now, this is a myth, you know, that the, uh, uh, that, uh, griping is a soldier's privilege. The chronic griper is the, uh, is a good thing for an army. Well, it's not only a privilege, but I always assumed that it was a sign of high morale. The man who spoke his mind was the man who was going to do best in the last analysis. Uh, there, there has been a good deal of support for that general idea, but the facts, however, in this and other studies turned out to be the contrary, that those companies, which had the most complainers in it, uh, also had the poorest battle performance in, in, in Normandy in the next two months following the invasion. We studied a hundred companies and our data on that are pretty clear cut, but, uh, that, uh, uh, I don't think that kind of a study probably is, is, uh, is important in some ways as the kind of a study that, uh, Carl, you could tell us about, about, uh, take that one we did of paratroopers for instance. The one down at Benning with paratroop groups? I think that was a very interesting one because here we had a chance to use rigorous experimental methods for predicting which men were going to succeed in subsequent jumps and which would not. We were able, for example, to study the men in their very first few days of training when they were, uh, given as part of their mission, the climbing towers and jumping from them. And we were able to study their fear reactions and find out whether or not the people who hesitated and were unable to jump in this early part of the training were the very ones who failed to jump later when they became paratroopers. That was kind of a scary experience standing up on top of that tower, I happen to remember. Yeah, it was. Well, now this is the sort of thing that, uh, really made for more effective, uh, battle records subsequently. You, you had experimental devices for determining which men and which companies would make out better in actual combat. And I suppose that's, uh, one of the main lessons, uh, that you learned during your army research. Something about the, uh, basic value of experimental work as compared even with the kind of interview surveys that you were describing. Can I say a point on, word on that point? I wish I would, Sam. Uh, they, uh, it seems that it's very hard for some of us to get used to the idea that you can experiment with people on psychological problems. And if nobody would think of adopting a new weapon in the army or some new material in industry of some equipment in industry without careful experimentation. But when it comes to people, they'll adopt a new policy and won't think about the need for experimentation. You know, for instance, if you, uh, uh, want people to, uh, to, if you want to test a pair of shoes that you want to use, well, you can have a person put one kind of shoe on the right foot and one kind of shoe on the left foot and, uh, do a nice experiment on it, which wears out first. But when it comes to dealing with people, the shoe is on the other foot. Well, maybe so, maybe so. But here's the thing. When it comes to dealing with people, uh, the tendency is just to accept what seems to be plausible rather than what is rigorously proved. Well, Sam, it seems to me there's another problem there that you must have run into. Uh, experimenting with weapons and with, uh, material matters, uh, seems taken for granted, but experimenting with people raise, seems to raise a moral issue. Did you? Well, I don't know. Let Carl tell about this physical, uh, conditioning study he did. I think that'll, will throw some light on this point. I think this is a good example of using experimental methods on problems of having to do with personnel. There's a lot of debate throughout the Army as to what is the most effective way of producing good physical conditioning. And the traditional Army method had been through calisthenics. A lot of coaches came along and said, these methods are not at all satisfactory. We'll have to step them up if we're going to get well-trained men. Was that the, uh, alternative between the Namby-Pamby approach and the tough physical conditioning approach? Were those the two alternatives that you began to examine? That's right. Those were the two alternatives, and we persuaded the Army that rather than debating on this matter, that this be subjected to a straightforward test. Let's take one group of men and give them what you call a Namby-Pamby calisthenic approach, take the other group, and give them the rigorous, uh, methods devised by a panel of very well-informed football coaches. We tried out these two methods at a number of different camps. First, before any training was given, we put the men through a series of tests involving their endurance and their speed and general stamina. And then, following the period of six weeks of training, we tested them again to see whether or not their physical condition was improved. We found clear evidence of the great superiority of the more rigorous type of program, which involved the tough physical conditioning. And a strange thing was that the men liked the program a lot better, even when it was tougher. Well, I'll have to consider that when I take up calisthenics in a private capacity. But you know, there's one theme that's been running through your report that, uh, might be examined. Most of this work seems to do exclusively with problems that are peculiar to the army. You were obviously, as a research branch, attached to the army. That was your primary concern. But was there anything that came out of all this, uh, work over a period of years, uh, that has some implications for civilian life, for problems of American society, for problems of, uh, human behavior in general. Sam, you recall any studies that seem to you to have this wider bearing and aren't confined to the army as such? Well, again, Bob, I'm probably kind of a biased witness on the subject, but I do think that there are a good many, uh, such studies that we made that have important civilian implications. So, maybe I might just say a word about, uh, one of our, some of our studies in race relations, for example. Well, that's a pretty touchy problem, and it would be interesting to see what research had to say on that. Well, there you have a situation where many people have strong beliefs, and when enough people believe something, it may take on the character of a myth. Uh, they, uh, a lot of people in the army, for example, believed that negro soldiers preferred, uh, white officers, and that was due to general, uh, belief. Well, we, we just asked negro soldiers what kind of officers they wanted, and we found out that ninety percent of them wanted negro officers. And, uh, similarly, with a wide variety of questions that we went into, uh, we found that, uh, what, the expectation wasn't true. But one thing I'd really like to talk about a second or two would be about this, uh, study we made of negroes in, uh, uh, white combat companies, uh, who were fighting in, in, uh, Germany. The army tried a real experiment here. They actually, instead of using negroes as segregated troops, put a negro platoon into a white company in several divisions in Europe. Now, we followed that with our research pretty closely. At first, it, uh, we found that the white soldiers in companies that had these negro platoons didn't think much of the idea. Yeah. They didn't think this was going to work at all. This was before it had even been tried. Before it had even been tried. Seventy, about something like seventy-five percent of them were opposed to the idea. Well, now, if you had, uh, taken the democratic ballot on that, uh, policy, it would have come out with one result. What did you find after the experiment was tried? Now, that just shows the importance of experimentation. What we did find out, after these negro troops had fought alongside of the white troops, that, uh, the, the figure was just reversed, that more than seventy-five percent of the white soldiers who were fighting alongside these negro troops thought it was a good idea to have negro troops in the same companies as the white troops. And incidentally, that was true of southern soldiers as well as northern soldiers. I should think research like this would be important in Korea at the present time, where the problem of incorporating, uh, various types of, uh, Korean soldiers is involved. It has been taken into account, and it has been an important, uh, had some importance, I think, in connection with the army's, uh, present, uh, uh, handling of problems of race relations, that segregation is gradually being eliminated in the armed forces. Well, as a matter of fact, uh, Sam, I can see, uh, why you suggest that that is a problem that's not, uh, confined to the army, and that your research has significance that's not confined to army situations. Uh, some of us, uh, at Columbia conducted a somewhat similar research on, uh, Negroes and whites in the housing development in Pittsburgh. That's an important study. And, uh, well, that's the kindest remark, but then we're engaged in patting each other on the back in any case. I think scientifically the important thing was that, uh, though frankly we didn't know of your work in the army at the time, I want to make that claim, and went about our own study independently. It came out with almost the same kind of result. And again, it had seemed to have the same implication, that the, uh, attitudes of people can be changed if the situation is changed. And, uh, I, it seems to me that many of the studies which you've been reporting on here has that, uh, general meaning for American society, that the attitudes which now exist are not here forever and a day. I've wondered throughout in, uh, my looking over the materials of the research branch, how often you, uh, had occasion to blow up popular mythology. You mentioned this case of the, uh, prevailing belief that, uh, Negroes preferred white officers. I remember another prevailing belief that any southern Negro enlisted man would much prefer a southern white officer to a northern white officer. Did you learn anything about that? Well, that, uh, that turned out not to be the case. And, uh, well, we, we ran into a lot of problems where we hit upon surprising, uh, results, uh, where, uh, it was, uh, quite unexpected things. For example, uh, there'd been the general myth that the best infantry soldier was a person who was more or less illiterate but could shoot a squirrel's eye out at 90 feet. Well, we found that the infantry, uh, infantry, so infantry was a pretty important mechanized outfit requiring initiative, alertness, and intelligence. And, uh, uh, there wasn't much doubt, uh, as a result of our studies that, uh, the army had, uh, a big problem on its hands in trying to convince, uh, the, uh, other branches of the service that the infantry really required elite troops. And that's something I think that's got a lot of important implications for the future. You mean your studies found that the, uh, better informed and better educated soldier actually did more effective combat? Well, we found that out from a number of points of view. And, uh, I think it is true. I don't want to say education alone. There was lots of soldiers who were not well educated, who were marvelous soldiers. There were also soldiers who were well educated who were not good soldiers. But on the average, statistically, there is no doubt that education and information paid. And that the well-informed soldier was the good soldier. Very much more so. Was that, uh, known to men in the army themselves or was it based entirely on the kind of research which most of them wouldn't know about? Did platoon leaders, for example, have any information in the Mets Corps? Well, I don't know how much the information was generally known, but, uh, every effort was made to communicate the results of our research to officers and two responsible people, uh, throughout the army. Maybe you have seen the monthly bulletin, What the Soldier Thinks. Well, that would be the kind of thing I had in mind. Well, we can now better understand, I think, why, uh, General George C. Marshall described the volumes of the American soldier as a unique picture of what the American soldier was thinking and feeling at home and abroad before, after, and during combat. It appears that the American soldier finds himself in an army that shows signs of becoming increasingly democratic. And that social research can aid and has aided this process of democratization. But social research can learn what the soldier himself thinks and feels, and this can be taken into account in staff decisions. We now know that traditional relations between enlisted men and officers have been modified. The traditional segregation of Negro and white officers is perhaps slowly, and perhaps even more surely, on its way out. And most important of all, you have found no evidence that the American soldier develops a permanent militaristic outlook. He is a civilian on leave and eager to return to civilian ranks. Thanks. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on the American soldier were Carl I. Hovland, psychologist, Yale University, Samuel Stauffer, sociologist, Harvard University, formerly of the University of Chicago, and Robert K. Merton, sociologist, Columbia University. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of the American soldier contains the full text of the discussion and an additional supplementary article by Mr. Stauffer on the adjustment of the American soldier to combat and army life. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. Now I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week the roundtable discusses why we annoy our allies. May we invite you to join the new roundtable home study courses in human rights, world politics, and economics in the modern world. These courses are open to all and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week the roundtable will again be heard at its new broadcast time, 1 30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. Please note and remember this new roundtable time and tell your friends that they can hear the University of Chicago roundtable next week and each of the following weeks at 1 30 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. Today's program originated from Radio City in New York. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of the National Broadcasting Company. Be sure to hear Martin Cain, Private Eye today on NBC. Two and its last week the たら Hill is directed by Irre vezes April 24 had prominently after the<|he|> instead rekastỏ再proof mag香港ics with fractured a project in the month of March of! Oроh 5 nvmjsef