The 1949 March of Dimes is on the air. And the king is back. Yes, sir, this is Art Ford with the 1949 March of Dimes. With a band that sets the musical style of the nation. Its head man has won countless popularity foes as both band leader and soloist. His clarinet can speak the musical language of the long hairs as fluently as it can the free speech of jazz. Here he is, chairman of the dance band committee for the March of Dimes. The king himself, Benny Goodman. Welcome back, BG. Thank you, Art Ford. Where you been, Benny? Well, Art, I've had the boys on the raps. Except for a couple of theater dates. And it's great to be back, especially for the March of Dimes. Well, before we talk about that, let's hear some of that fine music of yours. Does your new band play any of the wonderful arrangements that made your old band such a standout? Well, naturally, Arthur. How'd you like to hear real oldie? How about String of Pearls? R spielt play Today's tune then? The first thing has beenной music for you to dance in everyyorum. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Tender eyes that shine They will light our way tonight I'll see you in my dreams Wonderful Benny's just couldn't be better. Say, Art, before we go on with the music, I'd like to take a minute of everybody's time to talk about my five kids. Okay. You see, folks, it's because of these five kids I go all out for the March of Dimes. It's through the March of Dimes that the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis pays for treatments for any child whose parents can't afford the long, expensive care needed to combat the crippling effects of polio. I've been lucky. Fortunately, I don't need the March of Dimes to help me pay the bills if polio should attack one of my children. But I need the March of Dimes for something more important than financial reasons. I need the March of Dimes because part of the money we give enables the Foundation to finance the tremendous research job that's looking for a way to stop the crippler once and for all. And until we find a cure for polio, no child, mine or yours is safe from the constant threat of this crippling disease. I want a cure found for infantile paralysis before the crippler attacks my children. Don't you? And keep these laboratories going full steam ahead. Give generously to the March of Dimes. Thank you, Benny. And now, how about more music? Oh, all right. This is a brand new one composed and orchestrated by Arturo O'Farrill. It's called The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. The Undercurrent Blues. Oh, that was wonderful. And now, Benny, tell me about this Buddy Greco. I've been hearing all about him. Is he really as good as they tell me? Well, we think he's great. And now he sings Don't Worry About Me. Don't Worry About Me I'll get along Forget about me Be happy, my love Let's say that our little show Is over and so the story ends Why not call it a day The sensible way And still be friends Look out for yourself Should be the rule Give your heart and your love To whoever you choose But don't be a fool Darling, why should we cling To some fading things That you'd say If you can forget Don't worry about me May something Me perspective Well, that's Benny Goodman's famed goodbye, so goodbye for now to Benny Goodman and his band. Just a moment, just a moment, Art. Uh, don't forget, folks. Join the March of Dimes, huh? And may I, Art Ford, second those sentiments? Please join the March of Dimes. The 1949 March of Dimes is on the air. With the sweetest music this side of heaven, it's Guy Lombardo and his Royal Canadians who have proved that swing may come and jive may go, but there's always the sweetest music this side of heaven. And now, here's Guy Lombardo. Thank you very much, Cy Harris. The Royal Canadians and I are happy to play for the March of Dimes, for we all know that it's the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, supported by the March of Dime Funds, which stands ever ready to help your child or any person who is attacked by the crippler infantile paralysis. And now the music for the 1949 March of Dimes begins with Powder Your Face with Sunshine. The tonight's household. Suspness is back in its flock and jive may go, the Kelly Range and I may go, and cannot run as easily. That's why I don't care from포YN층s is anywhere between a layer of and 날짜 pardons. laid off theпервых I have a energia of Aujourd'Henced and ниقت ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ Powder your face with sunshine ¶ Put on a great big smile ¶ Make up your eyes with laughter ¶ Folks will be laughing with you in a little while ¶ Whistle a tune of gladness ¶ Gloom never was in style ¶ The future's brighter ¶ When hearts are lighter ¶ Smile, smile, smile ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ And now listen to Kenny Gardner as he sings ¶ A bluebird singing in my heart ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ ¶ Since you came along, la-la-la-la, there's a bluebird singing in my heart. Thanks, Guy. That was very pleasant indeed. Say, what's the title on the top of that piece of music that the boys are pulling out now? Well, Si, the title is My Darling, My Darling, and Don Rodney has the vocal. nutrients there in facilitated more than thy wings. Disgeld two balls here inalienáis mucha baaga y granja pero cuando jag strá instruy deterioró el nace floorberg. Es que me lleva a cabo tubulo del troτεiro sampai diciembre en casa. Just shut the acompañ mita. Facиль de beers oeste juntos fan de diadero. Arstenss director Murray again. My darling, my darling, I've wanted to call you my darling for many and many a day. My darling, my darling, I fluttered and fled like a starling. My courage just melted away. Now all at once you've kissed me, and there's not a thing I'm sane enough to say. Except my darling, my darling, get used to the name of my darling. It's here to stay. And now, Guy Lombardo and his Royal Canadian... Just a minute, Si. Excuse me. But before there's more music, I'd like to talk about a problem we all share together. Infantile paralysis. You know every year polio attacks little children and adults too. Last year was one of the greatest epidemics in America's history with over 26,000 cases. Remember parents, once infantile paralysis strikes anywhere, attacks anyone, your child may be stricken next. There is just one way you can fight for your child against polio, and that is to join the March of Dimes. Now if infantile paralysis strikes your child, your local chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis will be right there to help you. It will even provide a medical treatment for anyone who cannot afford it. Now your March of Dimes contributions make this help possible. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, which you support through the March of Dimes, finances a huge research program to find a preventative and cure for polio, so that someday your child may be protected from the crippler's attacks. Now let's each of us face the problem of infantile paralysis squarely, join the March of Dimes. any further questions. You've got to read the book of Dimes University, where we know it is. Number six! Ao the Dam 급, let's go to Neon Baen at the maaram pimp Allan Saf крут les marten spBrien dames Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Starting with My Happiness. Thank you. It had to be you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
