Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, the program in its 19th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, should we harness our wilderness waters? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around a very controversial question, should we utilize the water power potential in our national parks? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Charles G. Sowers, General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve District in Cook County, Illinois, and Chairman of the Advisory Board on National Parks. John Jeffrey Will, Secretary and General Counsel of the Upper Colorado River Commission in Denver and Grand Junction, Colorado. And Bill Voigt, Executive Director of the Isaac Walton League of America and Chairman of the National Resources Council of America in Chicago. And John B. Quinn, Executive Director of the Missouri Valley Development Association in Lincoln, Nebraska, and Regional Director for the National Rivers and Harbor Congress. Now, gentlemen, I think we had better get some background on this question of ours. Should we harness our wilderness waters? Uh, Will, what do you mean by wilderness waters? Well, by wilderness waters, I mean those water resources in wilderness areas that are included, for instance, in national parks and monuments, in our national forests, and perhaps to some extent in state parks. In the national parks and monuments alone, the country has set aside wilderness areas as large as the state of Maine. Uh, the forests, the national forests have set aside wilderness areas possibly amounting to something like 20 million acres. Uh, proposals for the use of a very small part of a particular national monument containing a wilderness area of exceptional beauty in Utah and Colorado are now pending in the Department of the Interior. I refer, uh, to the proposals of the Secretary of the Interior and of the Upper Colorado River Commission for the use of a small part of the Dinosaur National Monument in Utah and Colorado. Uh, there, that use would be made by erecting a dam known as the Echo Park Dam, which would impound, uh, sizable quantities of water in the Dinosaur National Monument. Now, does that begin to identify this problem to your satisfaction? Uh, Mr. Boyd? Well, just to a certain extent. That's part of it, yes. I think that, uh, our subject here should perhaps be more specifically defined as a question of the proper use of public waters in areas dedicated to special recreational and conservation purposes, such as the national parks and monuments and the wildernesses and the national forests. And our position, of course, is that these should not be used for any purpose alien to the primary purposes of the areas. Now, are we talking about, uh, water of any consequence in these areas? Oh, dear, we are. We are talking about water of enormous consequence to the five states of the Upper Colorado River Basin. Well, that's just one of many major rivers that, uh, head up or, uh, flow through these dedicated areas. How would you stake this problem, Sowers? Well, that's just one of the most important things that we have to do. And, uh, the Congress has seen fit to set aside national parks and monuments and wilderness areas for their great values, for the fact that they are of national significance, of national importance to every citizen of the United States. Every citizen has an equity in these areas. And our purpose in discussing here is why any impoundment should encroach upon national parks, national monuments, or wildernesses where there are, uh, there is ample opportunity to accomplish the impoundments for irrigation and power outside of these areas. Does that state the question fairly, uh, uh, Mr. Quinn? Well, I would, I would say that the, that the question must necessarily be one of, uh, nationwide interest on how these waters of the wilderness are used and controlled. We in the Missouri Valley Basin, for instance, have experienced loss of life, billions of dollars worth of property destroyed, and we are, uh, deeply concerned when people would, uh, uh, uh, not use the full knowledge of mankind to use our natural resources. After all, our Congress of the United States has also established the policy that it is the job of our nation to develop natural resources and to protect the people against ravaging floods. I wish to point out that those of us who believe in the preservation of the national parks, monuments, and wilderness areas are not against the development of our natural resources or of our water resources. We're only against it where it involves the values for which these areas were set aside. We are hopeful and believe that the people, for instance, in Mr. Will's Colorado Valley, can have all the water and, and all the power that they desire under the, under conditions which will preserve the areas involved. I object very strenuously, McBurney, uh, to the notion that all of these wilderness areas were set aside by the Congress of the United States. Such is absolutely not the case, for instance, in the, uh, matter of the Dinosaur National Monument. The Dinosaur National Monument was originally established by presidential decree under the Antiquities Act, which I cannot cite to you at the moment. It was enlarged subsequently, again by presidential decree. The Congress had nothing to do with the original establishment and the subsequent enlargement of the Dinosaur National Monument. But the Congress did convey the power to the president to establish that monument. Exactly, for the administration of those areas of special reserves. And another thing, McBurney, Will said something about the Secretary of Interior, the Department of Interior, having power over the, the, over the matter of going into this Dinosaur National Monument. And, uh, only on March 7, 1951, the Secretary of Interior signed his famous Order 2618, in which he declared that in furtherance of the Department's policy, no bureau, service, or agency shall henceforth undertake or continue within or affecting any national park or, or monument, any investigations or studies having to do with the building of dams and so forth without the express written approval of the Secretary. Secretary of Interior, I agree that such an order exists, McBurney, of course. And it was very proper that it should be issued. And I would not wish to be understood as favoring a general policy of invasion of national park or monument areas or other wilderness areas. I suggest only that there are cases where the use of the water resources of those areas may be justified in the light of human needs. Now, it is true that I mentioned something of the Secretary of the Interior's function in connection with these national park and monument areas. It is also true, and I believe I may as well mention it now, that about a year ago, possibly a bit longer, the Secretary of the Interior decided, after elaborate hearings on the subject of the dinosaur national monument, that the area, that use of the area for water resource development for our upper Colorado River Basin should be permitted. Did he go in voluntarily or was he pushed? Mr. McBurney, might I break in here for the benefit of your reviewing stand audience? Wouldn't it clarify this question a little bit if we would say that there are those who vigorously oppose the impoundment of water in certain areas of our country, and there are those on the other hand who think that it's necessary and essential? And both are represented at this stage? That's right. In other words, that is the issue that I think could be clarified for the benefit of your own. Now to sharpen that issue, which I think you've stated very well indeed, I'd like to ask Mr. Boyd here, what are the values of these waters in their present state, in their natural state? Why are you so anxious to preserve these parts? As an essential part of the natural scene, Dr. McBurney, these areas were set aside for specific purposes to be maintained, as Cap Sowers can verify, inviolate for the preservation and enjoyment of the people for all time by the Congressional Act of 1916. And we think that the essence of that act must be carried out, the policy and the principle must be carried forward by all of the agencies of the federal government. Again, let me suggest that we don't want to give the impression that an area such as the Dinosaur National Monument was set aside by Act of Congress. No, that was by presidential proclamation under authority of an Act of Congress. I grant that. Well, Dr. McBurney, again, I'd like to point out that the benefits, the total benefits of any of these natural resource development is the question under discussion today, as I see it. For instance, the electrical energy that would go to the farm and the ranch homes of that area, the flood control measures, the possibilities of impoundment of water to keep the water off of the Missouri Valley Basin, off of the high mountains, where snow and ice melts in the early spring, those are the questions that are benefits, and the human benefits as well as the economic benefits. And to me, I think that other areas of the country have given their valuable land to provide a protection and an investment for the people, and I see no reason to exclude certain areas from making their share of the contribution to the benefit of all of the people. Mr. Sowers? Mr. Will insists on talking about the dinosaur, and Mr. Quinn has just spoken about benefits to ranchers. In the Missouri. In the Missouri. In the Missouri, but I'll talk about the ranchers in the Colorado Valley. It has been conclusively proved to we preservationists by General Grant and others that the desire of the people like Mr. Will and his organization to have certain water impoundments in the Colorado River Valley can be secured with dams in places other than in national monuments. And we concur in that. And therefore it isn't necessary, and we're perfectly happy to see them go someplace else and build their dams and secure all the water that they need, but we ask that they stay out of national monuments and national parks. Well, I'll just, just a second. You ask them to, to, to stay out, and for, and for what reason? Now I know I'm putting the same question to you that I put to Mr. Voight here a minute ago, which you did answer. I want to, I want to have that spelled out a little more. Why preserve these parks? Because the values in a great natural landscape, which are no place else duplicated in the United States, are of constant importance to the people of the United States. They will be important not today. They will be there if they are protected under the present policies of the national government and the National Park Service. They will be there 2,000 years from now when the dams that they propose now will long been, become archeological artifacts. Suit it up. Are you interested in, in fish, game, wildlife? Is that a part of this problem? That's part of it, but the principal part is the magnificence of the scenery. They, they are the supreme examples in the United States of the type of thing that they are. All right, now let's hear the other side. I'm very glad to hear, uh, my friend Voight suggest that the fishery resources in the green and yamba down there in those Kenyans that we're talking about, in the Dinosaur National Monument, are a comparatively minor part of this picture. Yes, and so would the fish in the wildlife in the reservoir. About the only thing you can catch down there now, and have been able to catch in that section for years, is, uh, this trash fish that I think Bill Voight was talking about at lunch. And that's all you would catch out of the reservoirs too, but that's a small part. That is one of the issues. Well, if this impoundment has taken place, how, uh, there will be a vast improvement in those fishery conditions. That's a guess. And, uh, it's a guess based, however, upon informed research by, for instance, uh, the, uh, Game and Fish Commission of the State of Colorado and others. If you want to talk about tonnage of trash fish caught, yes. Well, of course, I, I would like to say this again to clarify the issue. You would put the water any place except in these national parks, and I think it's granted that, uh, from the agricultural standpoint, that that is arid and unproductive land. Now, you gentlemen, as I understand it, are taking the position that put the water any place else, even on the rich farmland... No. ...that destroy farm-growing crops any place else except there. There are intermediate areas that are of relatively less value economically and scenically and recreationally and so forth. Uh, I think that you, Quinn, are turning into moderator of this affair. Well, uh, gentlemen, I need Mr. Quinn's help, if I may say so. I want, I want to, I want to ask the other side of this question. I've, I've been pressing you, gentlemen, for the, uh, the, your reasons for wanting to preserve this area. And you, you, these park areas, you've stated it. Now, what are the economic possibilities of these wilderness waters, uh, Quinn? What are the other public benefits? Why is it necessary to harness these waters? Let's hear your side of it. Uh, did you mean Quinn or Jeff Will? I meant Jeff Will. Uh, so far as, uh, those economic, uh, considerations are concerned, we have to bear this in mind. That the primary purpose we have in the Upper Colorado River Basin is to provide a series of storage reservoirs that will permit our five states to make the full use of water that is apportioned to them under the 1922 Colorado River Compact. They cannot do that without a system of reservoirs that will hold water in good years for use during those years in which flows are greatly reduced. Well, why do you have to build this dam in a national park? That's my question. We have to build it in the, uh, in this, uh, Dinosaur National Monument area because some fifty years of investigations have revealed that no other combination of sites that would provide equivalent storage is as economic from the point of view of storage. That is to say, reduces evaporation losses to the extent that the narrow canyons of the Echo Park dam site would reduce it. That is an opinion, and there are other people whom I consider just as fully qualified, such as General Grant, whom Captain Sowers mentioned a minute ago, who, uh, have stated opinions, uh, of a different nature, who have analyzed all of these facts and, or, or presumed facts and figures that have been produced over the last fifty years, and have come up with entirely different, uh, recommendations and suggestions and beliefs and convictions. General Grant has proved to the satisfaction of informed hydrologists that he does not know whereof he speaks. That I would question seriously. When he gets into a subject that is so foreign to his experience and to his learning. Uh, I resent that impugning of General Grant's, uh, qualifications. Well, I wouldn't be able to adjudicate that issue, but, uh, go ahead. He himself admitted in public hearings before the Secretary of the Bureau of Reclamation. But he was not a hydrologist, yes. He was not a hydrologist, yes. He was not qualified to form an opinion on the subject. He was a hydrologist. And yet he has been hearing opinions on the subject ever since. But he certainly is a qualified analyst. And another thing, none of his opinions have ever been successfully or even attempted to be refuted by the Bureau of Reclamation. Right. It has been refuted time after. Not successfully. You have a dozen dam sites on the Colorado River within gunshot almost of this, uh, Echo Park thing. You will create the same economic condition. There is no combination. You'll create the recreation values that you've created Echo Park. There is no combination of substitutes. You're talking about a little amount of some evaporation. There is no combination, Mr. Sowers. There is no combination of substitutes. Quinn wants that to be moderator again. That would not involve a loss of water by evaporation exceeding 300,000 acre feet a year. That is a gift. Mr. Quinn has the floor. Dr. McBurney, I want to point out I've been very quiet here for the last five minutes. And I'm not trying to be moderator. But I want to point out this. That every time the competent, uh, men employed by our federal government, uh, come out with a set of engineering facts, the forces of opposition are always able to produce another engineer who says that those engineering facts are totally wrong. In other words, that is a technique well established in the Missouri Valley Basin, uh, and we all know that your geographical location of dams or reservoirs are established because of certain engineering facts as well as cost, uh, ascertainments that must be looked at in the overall total picture. Uh, plus the fact that it is the policy of our federal government, as I understand it, to store water in arid and unproductive regions and not on the rich soil of farm-producing farms. I quite agree. I'm on a question even back. Although it's outside of our scope here today. Well, I'd like to point out also that often the engineering, uh, facts, not so much the facts, but the engineering programs are dictated by the political opportunism, opportunism which is practiced by the superiors of the engineers. So, well, now I think, I think I'm going to resent that for the record, my buddy. Uh, we can't be accused in the up-Colorado River Commission of political opportunism. We are a wholly nonpartisan organization, not concerned with the success or failure of any party. So is the Isaac Walton League. And I agree that the Isaac Walton League is of the same... Devoted wholly to the public interest. Well, let me suggest this. The best combination of alternatives, as Sauer suggests, we have out there in our part of the country, would involve a loss of water, uh, sufficient to supply the annual requirements of a city of two and a half million people. Or the irrigation requirements of an area of 175,000 acres. In other words, more than enough for 1,000 family-sized farms. And the power requirements of 80,000 families. In other words, if you were to construct the dam someplace other than this, uh, national monument... Those are the losses that would be entailed. You would be involved, you would be involved in those losses. Now, let me ask, uh, another question, if I may, before you challenge that point of view. What if this dam were constructed in the National Park? What would it do to the parks, Sauer? It would simply destroy the natural values for which the, uh, dinosaur national monument was founded. The monument was founded because of the natural values which exist there. If you fill the canyons, which are magnificent, half full of water, you don't have a natural monument anymore. You have a, a, an impoundment of waters and a power dam, and you don't have at all the values that you started out with. Also, it means the necessity, uh, the, our fight on this thing is concerned with the policy which has been established and which must not be disturbed. This is a precedent which would admit the same sort of argument in the case of Grand Canyon, Glacier View, Mammoth Cave, and innumerable other situations, which are now being worked upon either by the Corps of Engineers or the Bureau of Reclamation. In other words, you, you suggest that there are, are many proposals of this sort to move into these national parks with water projects. Is that correct? Let me give you another slant on this, uh, uh, Dr. McBurney. We had something like 33 million visitors to our national park system just in the last year, and the number is increasing constantly at a rate of about 10% per year. We expect somewhere in the neighborhood of 36 million people to visit those parks. We have more than a million a year in Rocky Mountain National Park, the same in Yellowstone, and in the, in the other high or northerly parks where the season is short. The present park system is becoming increasingly overcrowded. I say it's a blessing that we still have a few underdeveloped areas like dinosaur, which can be improved with park-type facilities to help take care of these growing millions of visitors to the great scenic regions of the country. These millions are pretty sure to bring more spending money to Bernal, Utah, and Grand Junction, Colorado, than are the construction crews that will build the dams. But Bill, just think of the additional customers that you'll bring into these parks when you can have skiing and ice skating and winter sports, unexcelled by these tremendous impoundings of water there, and vacation wildlife in the summertime. Yeah, I have a little bit of a... Terrific, let me answer Quinn first. All you're going to have is another big overgrown bathtub out there, and if they want reservoirs, these people from the other parts of the country, the heavily populated parts of the country, can go to the TVA country. They can go down into... To get back a little bit to the point there, they can go to the Michigan area of Ohio. Bill, as the director of the Isaac Walton League, have you ever supported the establishment of one reservoir anyplace? We have not objected to either garrison or the dams in the TVA. But you never supported them. Well, I wouldn't go so far as to say that we have had to... In other words, I think the record should show that officially you do not support the construction of dams or reservoirs. We look in... We don't take the building of a dam just as a dam itself as the criteria. We look at each one separately and individually and say, is this project good or is this project bad? And then we try to fit it into the whole scheme of things for a whole basin, yes. But the record is the record. McBurney, I'm most interested in the suggestion that has been made by my friend Quinn that the Isaac Walton League has never supported a proposal for the construction of some water resource development project. I think that that is probably strictly accurate. Well, I will... I think it is time that some of these organizations, like the Isaac Walton League, the American Civic Planning Association, the National Parks Association, should someday come before the Congress and support a proposal that means benefits to mankind. That's absolutely right. Now living. Now, I resent that attack upon the integrity of the Isaac Walton League of America, Mr. Will. I don't attack your integrity at all. You do indeed when you say that we're not proposing... We're not supporting actively anything that is beneficial. We support those things which we consider beneficial, which our membership nationwide considers beneficial. And I say that we, that the things that we are supporting are the true beneficial things for this country. I'll tell you what you're doing. You're opposing. You're opposing all of these... Dams and dinosaurs, yes. And the only way you can keep your contributions flowing in is by keeping your membership aroused. By keeping, by leading them to believe that something is threatened. Well, now let's talk about the sources of our contributions, then. Yes, let's. Well, Doctor, I was only trying to establish, and I'm not questioning the policy, because every organization or association have the right, under our former government, to draw up a policy, whether it's for or against. But I think the audience certainly should be informed, and it should be of an interesting discovery, that there are groups who very definitely oppose the construction of reservoirs or dams, and the tremendous benefits that are forthcoming to the people, because they have objectives and ambitions that are contrary. As I said before, the group whom I represent do not oppose the construction of dams, or do they oppose the development of water resources. We are for the preservation of those things which have been set aside for the benefit of the people of all the United States, and it has been shown by the annual attendance in national parks the desirability of them and the importance of them to the cultural side of the whole United States. I think these cultural attributes of the national parks and monument areas cannot be overestimated. I believe in them very profoundly. On the other hand, when my brother Sowers, just a moment ago, suggested that the use of a small portion of the Dinosaur National Monument for water storage purposes would destroy the monument as such, and I take it he meant to say that the inspirational values of the monument would be destroyed, I am bound to say that he has fallen into profound error. Well, we certainly have a difference in opinion on that. Mr. Will seems to think that this park would be preserved as essentially in his present form, and someone else has described it as two enormous bathtubs. Now, what are the facts? Well, the facts are that the Dinosaur National Monument was set aside because of the values which it now has. But that's just one wilderness, isn't it? Yes, that's one wilderness. Out of many. Out of many. Which also are under threat. For the same reason that Yosemite and Yellowstone and the Great Smokies and all such properties have been set aside. They've been set aside for the values which they have as a great natural area. And they are values which are transcendent and are above anything else in the country. And therefore, when you move in there and you destroy certain of those natural values, you decrease the value of that. And in the Dinosaur, you don't need to put any dams in the Dinosaur. You've got plenty of other places to put your dams and you'll get just as good from. And what is the source of these threats on these wilderness areas? The Bureau of Reclamation, the Corps of Engineers, and the local bodies that are represented by Mr. Will. Now, I think that we ought scarcely to describe the Upper Colorado River Commission, which represents the five states of the Upper Colorado River Basin, as posing a threat to national parks and monuments in the country. But if it supports dams and dinosaur, it does suppose a threat. The only thing that we have proposed is the use of a small portion of the Dinosaur National Monument for the impoundment of water. We propose that because it is vital to the fulfillment by the United States in the most water economic way possible of its obligations under the Mexican treaty. And because it is vital also to the fulfillment of obligations under the 1922 Colorado River Compact. Now, uh... You haven't mentioned national defense or irrigation water yet, Mr. Will. I could mention those. I took it that everybody here knew that the storage of that water and its release for the making, among other things, of hydroelectric power is a vast concern to the national defense picture in an area which contains the largest percentage of the uranium resources of the country. All right. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Should We Harness Our Wilderness Waters? We want to thank our guests for today. John B. Quinn, Executive Director of the Missouri Valley Development Association. Charles G. Sowers, General Superintendent of the Forest Preserve District of Cook County, Illinois. And Chairman of the Advisory Board on National Parks, Historic Sites, Buildings, and Monuments. William Voight, Jr., Executive Director of the Isaac Walton League of America. And Chairman of the National Resources Council of America. And John Jeffrey Will, Secretary and General Counsel of the Upper Colorado River Commission. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the social problems of the aged. Our guests will be Dr. Fred W. Fitz, Assistant Professor of Medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School. Robert J. Havighurst, Professor of Education and Chairman of the Committee on Human Development at the University of Chicago. Mrs. Rhoda Layton, Director of King Brewer House in Hinsdale, Illinois. And Robert Peterson, Assistant to the Director of Business Management Service in the College of Commerce at the University of Illinois. We hope you'll join us next week as we discuss the social problems of the aged. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System.