Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It will be my purpose on this radio broadcast to give you a brief description of the New York Fire Department's repair shop. Known officially as the Division of Repairs and Transportation, it is a major factor in Fire Commissioner Frank J. Quayle's successful handling of the complex firefighting problem that is a constant threat to the safety and welfare of this city. When you realize that the New York Fire Department has a rolling fleet of 791 pieces of apparatus, each of which is on emergency duty 24 hours a day, every day in the year, you can readily understand that the department must have a huge problem in maintenance and service. All its hook and ladders, pumping engines, hose wagons, rescue trucks, and other special type vehicles must be kept in first class condition. They must be kept ready for prompt response to any alarm in any kind of weather and under all sorts of traffic conditions. The entire job is handled by the Division of Repairs and Transportation, which is housed in a new fireproof building, the most modern of its kind in all the world. This building is situated in Long Island City, equidistant to all parts of the city. The building was constructed in 1947 with the thought of the health of the workers in mind, as well as the intricate scope of the work it would have to handle. It is so air conditioned that it prevents the accumulation of harmful gases and it compares favorably in size with any of the city's armories. I have been assigned by Commissioner Quayle to supervise and administer this division. In this capacity, I am assisted by two lieutenants, also designated by Commissioner Quayle. The rest of the personnel, approximately 130 in number, are all civilian employees of the department who have qualified for their duties by passing competitive civil service examinations. A brief review of our employee classifications will give you a picture of a miniature of Detroit, the automobile city. We employ clerks, carpenters, welders, battery men, auto mechanics, blacksmiths, machinists, painters, tire repairmen, upholsterers, and other types of skilled and unskilled workers. The repair shop functions around the clock. It is equipped to do any and all kinds of automotive work, from building a new truck chassis to paint spraying, from constructing a new battery to repairing a faulty headlight. In other words, no piece of our running equipment is returned to the factory for repairs. We do the job ourselves. There is an emergency crew on duty at the repair shop 24 hours a day. This group responds to all calls for apparatus repairs from any of the companies in the department. Depending on the nature of the damage, these men go to work with the purpose in mind of keeping that company available for firefighting duty. If the job is too big for on-the-spot fixing, they order the apparatus to be brought to our repair shop. Meanwhile, a reserved piece of equipment is then called into service for the company's use until repairs have been completed. This emergency crew also responds to all fires of three or more alarms. The response of these experts enables us to make any needed repairs or adjustments to the fire apparatus operating at the blaze. Fire is a tough enemy to conquer, and the fight against it demands maximum efficiency from every piece of equipment in use. If the motor of an engine pumping water into a burning building was suddenly stalled, it would cut off the supply of water in the hoses and thereby expose the firemen working on the lines to injury or death. Like in battle soldiers without guns, they would have little or no chance for survival. In the flaming shadows of every large fire, the members of our emergency crew are constantly on the alert to keep those engines continually humming. An interesting sidelight on the work of our repair shop is the work of our carpenters. These expert craftsmen make and keep and repair all our ladders which are made of wood. We buy our own lumber according to rigid specifications in a green rough stage and store and dry it for two to three years. Then, as the need arises, our carpenters draw upon this stockpile to construct new ladders or to repair broken sections of other ladders. In the short time allotted to this broadcast, I have been able to only highlight some of the factors that comprise the Division of Repairs and Transportation. A firefighting force, no matter how brave it is and no matter how well trained it is, can be only as good as its equipment. It is the object of our division to keep the New York Fire Department ranked as the best in the world by backing it up with the world's best maintained firefighting equipment. Thank you.