Northwestern University on the Mutual Network. Should the vote of the people. Our moderator, James Null of Speech, Northwestern University, is in today's discussion. ...by direct vote of the people, ...debaters throughout the nation. ...the annual debates which continue through the winter under the direction of the State High School Debating Leagues. The reviewing stand is glad to cooperate with the Committee on Debate Materials and Interstate Cooperation of the National University Extension Association in this fine educational enterprise. Our speakers today are Norman Thomas, author, lecturer, and former candidate for the Presidency on the Socialist Ticket, and Maynard Krieger, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. These two men favor the election of the President by direct vote of the people. Opposing this proposal, we present Ed Gossett, United States Representative from Texas and co-author of the Gossett Lodge Amendment, and Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now, Krieger, I wish you'd tell us how the President is elected under our present electoral system. He's elected by so-called electors. Each state has a number of electors equal to the representation it has in the House and the Senate. Each state determines for itself who's eligible to vote. Customarily, the entire electoral vote of any one state goes to one single candidate. In case no candidate for President has a majority of the electoral vote, the election is determined by the House of Representatives, where each state delegation has one vote. Do you have anything to add to that, Young? I think it's a clear statement, certainly. However, I think it should be pointed out also that the whole effectiveness of the Electoral College depends upon the electors being faithful to their trust. In other words, these electors can vote for whomever they please. In Tennessee, last year, one did. In other words, the electoral system does depend upon the faithful carrying out of the pledge of the electors. Well, now, with this brief explanation before us, I should like to ask Mr. Thomas to speak directly to the question, Should the President be elected by the direct vote of the people? By transcription, Mr. Norman Thomas. Of course, the President of the United States should be elected by direct vote of the people. There should be uniform, non-discriminatory standards for qualified voters applicable in every one of the 48 states. There should be fair and uniform rules under which various political parties may place presidential nominees on the ballots of all states. We should either elect the President by preferential ballot or have a runoff election between the two highest candidates if no man should have a majority. If American democracy were making a fresh start in drawing up its constitution, no politician or editor would dream of proposing any other plan for election. It would never occur to the people of a thinly populated state that they were entitled to six or seven times as much weight in electing a president as the people in the more populous states. Every legitimate right of the less populous states is very amply protected by equality of representation in the United States Senate. Yet, because the great men who drew up our Constitution were a little suspicious of the people and established a complicated, indirect way of electing the president, we are forced to debate what is today an elementary right of fair play, a safeguard against the serious troubles that might eventuate should the machinery of the Electoral College force upon the country a presidential candidate soundly defeated in the popular vote. The course of events from the beginning defeated the intention of the framers of the Constitution. They dreamt that it would be possible for the voters in the different states to select wise and disinterested individuals who would then proceed to choose the best man for president. That sort of thing has never worked in history and never will. It is completely opposed to the principle of responsible popular government by parties upon which our modern democracy depends. Parties immediately began to operate and the Electoral College became their butt. Several times we have had presidents who did not have a plurality in the popular vote, and once, when Hayes was finally chosen over Tilden, the process led us close to civil war. In 1948, for a few hours, it looked as if Governor Dewey might be elected by a majority of the Electoral College, although it was evident that he was lagging behind Mr. Truman in the popular vote. A shift of fewer than 30,000 votes in the states of Ohio, California, and Illinois would have thrown the election to Mr. Dewey, although Mr. Truman would still have had a popular plurality in excess of 2 million votes. A shift of 20,000 votes would have thrown the election into the House of Representatives, where each state, regardless of the immense differences in population, would have had one vote. This situation compelled Congress to pay some attention to its correction. So far, congressmen have rather contemptuously rejected the only decent idea, popular election. Why? For one reason and only one reason that makes any sense at all. That is, they believe that 12 of the smaller states, out of some kind of state pride, would exercise their constitutional power to block an amendment providing for a fair, popular election. This is an insult to American fair play. At the very least, we should try to bring home the facts in the case to the people, before accepting any compromise, like the Lodge-Gossett Amendment, which has considerable support in Congress. That amendment would abolish the College of Electors. While keeping the press in proportional power of the states in the election, it would divide the electoral vote of each state in proportion to the popular vote. This should be an improvement. And it might tend to break up the solid South, although some men argue that it would instead give it an increased weight in the councils of the Democratic Party. The amendment would continue the situation under which states disfranchise Negroes, largely in consequence of which one vote in South Carolina, Mississippi, or Alabama, is worth from five to nine times as much as in northern states. The Lodge-Gossett Amendment provides no protection against the election of a president in a field divided between three or four candidates, who may have a plurality very far short of the majority of the popular votes. It might tend to atomize our parties into small groups. But the real moral argument is that in any case, the people of the United States should directly elect their own president, the only one for whom all of them can vote. Any other plan mocks democracy. Thank you, Norman Thomas. Now let's give Congressman Ed Gossett from Texas a chance to reply. Mr. Gossett doesn't like the electoral college system any better than Mr. Thomas does, but he does not support direct election with the people. By transcription, Ed Gossett of Texas. It's a pleasure to be on this program with Mr. Norman Thomas, a gentleman whose character and intellect I very greatly respect. It was a pleasure to have Mr. Norman Thomas as a witness before our Judiciary Committee when we were considering this question some months ago. To restrain briefly the evils of the existing system, let me enumerate what I think to be its cardinal vices. First, the system under which we select presidents, the manner in which we choose electors, the way in which they vote and their votes are cast and counted. The possibilities of throwing elections into the House of Representatives is an open invitation to fraud and chicanery, and unless changed is going to one day result in disaster. In the second place, the electoral college confines presidential elections largely to a few pivotal states. In the third place, the electoral college confines the field of presidential possibilities, the candidates being selected from these same pivotal states. In the fourth place, the electoral college permits and invites and encourages irresponsible control and domination, if you please, by organized minority groups within the aforesaid pivotal states. In the fifth place, the electoral college deprives great masses of our very best citizens of the educational benefits and of the civic benefits of participating in presidential elections. The campaigns are not conducted in large sections of the country, except in a nominal way. In the sixth place, the electoral college places a president elected under it, under terrible obligations to these minority groups upon whom he must depend for election. Now, Mr. Thomas suggests that we abolish the electoral college, the electoral vote, and that we elect presidents by a direct popular vote. He admits, as I think most people do, the evils of the existing system. However, the proposal of Mr. Norman Thomas, while curing many of the present evils, would create many new ones as serious, if not more serious, than the existing evils. In the first place, one of the reasons that we want to abolish the electoral college is to eliminate a sectionalism. Now, to elect a president by a direct popular vote, to discard the electoral vote entirely, would aggravate and not alleviate sectionalism. Now, if, for example, there were some sectional issue, as there most always would be, between, say, Texas and New York, then the great state of New York would get out millions upon millions of votes. They would vote their dogs and their cats and their dead grandmothers. We in Texas, to retaliate, would do the same thing. Both of us would be subject to accusations of fraud. We'd have federal investigations of these national campaigns, and endless confusion and injustices would follow. Now, in the second place, a direct popular vote would eliminate state lines. Voting then would become a matter of national sovereignty. Each state would have to reduce its voting requirements to the lowest common denominator. The state of Georgia, for example, has an 18-year voting limit. If we had a direct popular vote to be on a parity with Georgia, all states would have to reduce their voting age to 18. The direct voting proposal would simply rub out state lines. Now, a much better system is that proposed by the Gossett Lodge Amendment, an amendment of which I happen to be the author in the House. It would abolish the Electoral College, a fictitious college. It would abolish electors. It would retain, however, the electoral vote and divide the electoral vote on an exact ratio with a popular vote. In other words, if the Republican candidate got 33 and a third percent of the popular vote in Texas, he would get 33 and one third percent of our 23 electoral votes. Everybody's vote would count, and it would count for the person for whom he cast it. The Gossett Lodge Amendment, in other words, would eliminate the evils and the vices of the present system, and it wouldn't entail any of the evils of the direct popular vote. Then, as a practical matter, we submit that the proposal of Mr. Thomas would never be ratified by the states, because the small states, the sparsely settled states, would lose some of their relative voting strength under the direct voting proposal. So, it comes down simply to this. Our system must be changed in the interest of national safety. The best and the most practical way is to abolish the Electoral College and the electors, and to divide the electoral vote in the exact ratio with the popular vote. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ed Gossett. Now, Professors Krieger and Young, where do you gentlemen stand on this question? Krieger? I'm glad to see the Electoral College abolished, whether by one method or another. I think there's a better and a poorer method of doing it, a better and a poorer substitute for it. And I think the Thomas proposal answers all of my major questions about what ought to be done. The Gossett proposal answers only one of them, and so I'm for the Thomas proposal, as against either the present system or the Gossett Amendment. How do you identify your position, Young? Dean McBurney, the Electoral College is really a fabulous institution. No one likes it, and yet it seems to me that any proposal to change it really leads to more trouble than we now have. The proposals here deal with methods of counting votes, and that seems to me not the heart of the issue at all. It seems to me certainly that one should change the system of electors from men to units. One should change also the system of the House, electing a president right now. On the other hand, the present method of the Electoral College does provide for the two-party system, and ordinarily works very well indeed. Do you think it's possible then, Young, to get rid of the electors using some much more mechanical system of getting the results recorded, than going through these crazy motions of having these electors on the ballot in a lot of states and having them meet in the state capitals and so on? Certainly the electors now are very artificial. There certainly is no need to have them. It seems to me, however, that there are some more important issues involved that I don't find answered in your position. I would like to see the voting strength of the various sections of the country much more nearly proportional, completely proportional to the number of votes that actually get cast. I don't want to see the various states able to disfranchise people and have the people who do the disfranchising rewarded by getting the political strength in their hands of the people who are deprived of the vote. And I would like to see... Well, Kruger, I have a number of points to answer on that. You seem to believe that somehow the President is not now representative. That if the votes were counted in some other fashion, that the President would somehow be representative. Now, it seems to me that is one of the fallacious arguments underlying the move to amend the Electoral College. Because it seems to me if you do change the representation, you will change the party strength in the two states and make it more difficult for any one party to get a majority. I'll show you what I mean by that, Dean McBurney. If you have two candidates, the chance of one receiving a majority is very great indeed. If you have more than two, the chance of a party or a man getting a majority is slight. If you have three or four or five, it is going to be increasingly difficult for any one man to have a majority. So what you're attempting to do is splinter the vote to make it easier for a minority to be elected rather than a majority candidate. Well, now we've raised as our first issue here, will election by direct vote ensure a majority president? You've heard Young's position on that, Kruger. What do you say to that? I think you are going to have, have had and ought to have commonly more than two candidates for the presidency. I think it's true that if you determine who is elected simply by taking the total vote cast in the whole country, adding it all up together rather than by states, and award the presidency to the man who gets a majority, and if nobody gets a majority on a first choice, count second choices. If you do it that way, I think there will be more cases than there has been in which there was no one man got a majority of first choices. But there's a quite adequate means of determining who has a majority when you take second choices into consideration, and you do have to take second choices into consideration in this country in order to get any candidate agreed upon for president. Mr. Kruger, why would you want to substitute for our present system a method which would decrease the possibility of any one candidate having a majority? The electoral system is geared to giving one candidate a majority. That's the most effective part of it. Now you want to abolish that and provide a system where a minority could be elected. No, I think you're wrong about that. Then you want at least to have, say, perhaps a preferential ballot or a second election. Why are you sure that this method is going to give a more representative president than the kind we have now? Should you not go back to the beginning and talk about party responsibility, how presidents get nominated, rather than accentuate the mere counting of the ballots after the presidents have been nominated? I can't see how you can get a more representative president merely by changing the method of counting the ballots. I'm not talking about how candidates are nominated, though I think that there could... That is the issue, though, is it not, if you want to get a representative president? Well, if you're... You cannot get a more representative president by changing the method of counting the ballots. If we could change the subject of the morning's discussion, there's nothing I'd like better than to go into that question of what ought to be done to the party structure in order to avoid this situation, where the man who gets nominated by a major party is frequently the man that nobody particularly wanted, not the first choice of any very substantial group. But that isn't the subject of the discussion. We're talking about how the votes shall be cast and counted in determining the outcome of an election. And I would like to see a system by which you can make sure that the man who is president has had a majority preference expressed for him, which isn't guaranteed under the present electoral college, isn't guaranteed at all under the Gossett Amendment. Are you going to get that under this direct vote you proposed, Krieger? It's Young's point here that you might very well, under your proposal, have a minority president, and indeed to avoid it you might have to run off a second election. You wouldn't have to run off a second election. You can handle it already on the first ballot with a preferential ballot. And the people of this country are smart enough to mark a preferential ballot. Don't tell me that that's any great stretch of the imagination. The people should be able to mark a first choice among a group of candidates, and then proceed to say, if this man cannot use my vote, my second choice amongst the others is this other fellow. Now, Krieger, what you're doing, of course, is giving the power to a minority to determine the presidency. You are not proposing a plan for the majority representation at all, but a plan whereby these various splinter groups, these minorities, which will have some vote in both the Thomas Plan and the Gossett Plan, would provide that they should have some vote, could influence the result of electing a president. You're giving a power to the minority, not to the majority. How would they exercise that power, Young? If a candidate, say under the large Gossett Plan, did not have a majority, why I believe the Gossett Plan now would allow a minority president. Under your plan, with either a preferential ballot or a second election, it would be possible then for the minority to make certain demands in order to get their votes. In other words, you would increase the possibility of minority parties to bludgeon the major parties into securing their support. It is not a majority proposal, but one to increase the strength of small, well-knit minorities. If we're going to require a majority for election, and I think it is important that the President of the United States, with all the power that there is in that office, have a majority choice expressed for him. If we're going to do that, and if there is in the minds of the General Electorate, no single, no majority preference for any one man, I see no way in the world by which you can avoid settling the question by taking into consideration the opinions of other people than the people who do not themselves make up a majority. I have the answer for that. We have the Labour government in England. You have a choice between one party or the other. May I ask you whether you believe the Labour Party has the support of the majority or not? I think that in the last election they fell in the popular vote just a little bit short of a majority. That's right. They are a minority of the government, are they? Yes. A minority government. In the sense of popular vote, yes. Well, why would you not allow the same thing to happen in this country with regard to the election of a President? A President may have a minority of the popular vote, still have a majority of the electoral vote, and he's a majority President. The answer to that is clear. I think the British, through their Parliament, have a current check on the administration and can toss it out on a vote of no confidence any time, whereas in the United States we elect an administration, a President, for a fixed period of years and nothing can move him out of the post short of death or impeachment. And as a result of that... We were talking about the arbitrary business of having a President elected by a majority, and it seems to me that the Electoral College does provide that, even though in a few cases, such as Woodrow Wilson and Abraham Lincoln, the President did not have the majority of the popular votes. Still, he does have the majority of the electoral votes. Well, now, we've been talking about this first issue. Will election by direct vote ensure a majority President? I think there's a second important issue, in which, as a matter of fact, we have touched a bit here. Will election by direct vote give us a more representative President Young? Not necessarily, and indeed, it's difficult to see how it could. If you give more and more representation to more minorities, having all the votes count, you will attempt to splinter the votes. You are not electing a council, you are electing one man. If you splinter the votes, there is less chance of one candidate getting a majority. Therefore, I would say that you would have less chance to get a representative President, but one which represents only small groups. You would not have one necessarily representing the majority. At least, it would be much more difficult. How are these sectional interests affected by these proposals? You heard Gossett's charge that a direct popular vote would aggravate and not alleviate sectionalism. Do you go along with that, Young? Well, that's the point Congressman Gossett has made. It does seem to me that there is a point in it, and that is under the plan, under Gossett's plan too, perhaps, under the direct election, certainly, you would give greater strength to those areas which had the greatest number of votes. That is, the areas which voted people in the largest percentage, according to the population, would have more representation than other areas. Well, those areas are the cities, largely. I think the cities would be much more powerful than they have been in the past. To that extent, certainly, I think that you might get sectional appeals. There are other possibilities also, of course, as you can well see. To appeal to people for votes in proportion to the number of people there are there, it doesn't seem to me to be a vicious thing at all. And if there are more people in cities than there are in the country, it seems to me quite reasonable that they should have more voice in determining who's President of the United States. That may be true, but let me ask you this, Kruger. In any city, say, in a ward election, if one ward voted twice as heavily as a second ward, would you give them two representatives as opposed to the other one? Yes, if you want to go into that, I wouldn't use the single-district system there. I'm sure you would, but the thing is, in this system, we have only one man to elect. One man, not a number of men. See, your system is designed there for a council, not for the election of one man representing a president. No, if you have one man to elect, therefore, I would say he ought to be elected on the basis of the total vote cast in the unit of which he is going to be the administrative officer, and that is the whole country and not one state. But on the sectional interest business, there is one sectional interest that's involved. That's the sectional interest of the South in preserving a one-party system down there. And the breaking of the unit rule, which would be done, by the way, by either the Gossip Plan or the Norman Thomas Plan, the breaking of the unit rule would, I think, put a lot more life into political parties in the South. And I think that a one-party system is as bad for political life as a one-sex system is for sex life. I would say that the one-party system is not necessarily the result of the Electoral College. I'm sure the two-party system is, but you have the one-party system in Maine as well as you have it in the South. And there are other reasons, certainly, for having a one-party system in the South than purely the existence of the Electoral College. Yes, there are historical reasons, but the continuation of the unit rule, which makes it useless for Republicans to vote in the South, and useless for most Democrats to vote in the general election in the South, seems to me to be very discouraging to the development of genuine political life in the South. I think you've overlooked the broader point, and that is that your plan does not provide for representation in Congress, say, to the same degree. You are merely electing a president. What we ought to look at, certainly, is the broader problem of electing a government which can govern. And there, it seems to me, that you fail if you merely stress the election of the president. Well, now, Krieger seems to be emphasizing this value in the direct election as I see it, that it gives the individual voter a better chance to express himself. Has that been your point? Yes, not only through encouraging the development of political party life in areas like the Solid South, for example, but also because I think people ought to be assured, in a situation in which I think their faith in the democratic elective process shows some signs of weakening, I think people ought to be assured that the way they cast their vote determines the outcome of the election, and the way they cast their vote does not now determine the outcome of the election. Well, that is a fallacious argument. You can apply that to a congressional district, for instance, and you find that some candidates win and some lose, that some voters win and some lose. Everyone cannot win. These votes have to be discarded at some level. You would merely give everyone's vote, count everyone's vote, up to the very last, and then throw out all minorities except one. Everyone cannot, in other words, elect the president. Thank you, gentlemen. How would you summarize your positions here? Young, what do you say? I would say some reform is certainly necessary. I do not think changing in the counting of the votes is essential at this time. On the other hand, I believe that it is necessary to change the electors from men to units, change the method of the House, selecting a candidate in the event no candidate receives a majority, and change the method by which the nominee of a national party can appear on state ballots. How would you sum up, Krieger? I want to see the qualifications for voters the same all over the country. I want to see the unit rule broken in the various states, the Electoral College abolished, and the country as a whole being the unit that elects a president. The Norman Thomas proposal does all of those things. The Gossett proposal does one of them. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, should the president be elected by the direct vote of the people. If you are interested in this and other problems of national significance, why not secure copies of these broadcasts by writing to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Ed Gossett, United States Representative from Texas, Maynard Krieger, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, Norman Thomas, author, lecturer, and former candidate for the presidency on the Socialist Ticket, and Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss a problem that will have special interest for the older members of our listening audience, but will, I think, at the same time be of concern to American citizens of all age groups. We ask, what can medicine do for the aged? Our guests will be Dr. Nathan Smith Davis III, Professor of Medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School, Dr. A.C. Ivey, Vice President of the University of Illinois, in charge of the schools of medicine, pharmacy, and nursing, and Dr. Henry T. Ricketts, Professor of Medicine at the University of Chicago School of Medicine. We invite you to listen next week when we discuss, what can medicine do for the aged? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the world's largest network, serving more than 500 radio stations, the Mutual Broadcasting System. hosting main Ford
