WNYC presents Freedom's Letter with the Triangle of Rhythm and as our guests today, Edward Cotter, field representative of the State Commission Against Discrimination, Eddie Matthews, concert artist, Melba Pope, composer and pianist, and your master of ceremonies, Bill Chase of the New York Amsterdam News. Hello, this is Bill Chase back again, and this is Freedom's Ladder, a 15-minute program designed to promote a closer understanding between all races and creeds, to break down discrimination, and to encourage unity. It is our endeavor on these programs to present outstanding guests who have a real story to tell of just how they themselves have climbed the ladder of freedom successfully. All this in spite of discrimination, hate, race, color, or creed. And right now, the Swing Department takes over, and as usual, we have that old, familiar trio, the Triangle of Rhythm, with Abner Kino on bass, Harold McFadden on guitar, and Austell Allen on piano. May I ask your undivided attention and your very groove anticipation as they make with What Is This Thing Called Love? That write the nichts of the jetzt dahsyt阅 for you! Share in background! The Money Leader We'll see you in front of you! You know, by The Art of Coddy will continue to work and invest in an example of what's happening in the in the system. The Attorney over the Suvis Department takes over to see you, can use your destiny as well. Turn away from me down a span of 10 minutes. I love you as usual. Now, we'll see you in front of a history here. And now, in the most scary place where it is, then, as soon as personal as it has given 둥ria will go on and get to you. You can use it when people oratoi will see you were a pretty exciting time. We have that beautiful yellow星 or two neurons, when you look in frontang forward. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ "'Ah, thanks guys. That was really swell. If that's love, I'll have some more of that. And now, how about something in the real torch manner. Okay? Well, seated at the piano right now is Melba Pope, popular composer and pianist with a brand-new number by Clarence Hodge, Melba Pope herself, and yours truly. And it's called, Why Am I a Fool?" popular composer and pianist with a brand new number by Clarence Hodge, Melba Pope herself, and yours truly. And it's called Why Am I a Fool? Though I've loved you from the start Since we were in school Through the years I gave my heart Why am I a fool? Loving you so madly, dear Seems to be my rule Knowing that I can't have you Why am I a fool? I tried to think you'd change If only just for fun Might as well face the fact I'm not the lucky one I thought that you wanted me I was just a tool All my life You've haunted me Why am I such a fool? Oh, gee, Melba, that was really swell. As a matter of fact, you did sort of proud for us. Well, now we come to our guest of honor Tonight's program Mr. Edward L. Carter, Jr., Field representative of the staff of the New York State Commission Against Discrimination You know, Mr. Carter You know, Mr. Carter, I'm getting so used to talking about this law now That the other night, when my mother started objecting to my being late for dinner I found myself saying rather absentmindedly, of course If you're discriminated against You'd better file a complaint with the New York State Commission against discrimination Well, however, Mr. Carter, that's not the kind of complaint you handle Right? No, I'm afraid not, Mr. Chase The commission handles cases involving complaints of discrimination in the field of employment As you know Well, for the benefit of those who have not been listening to our programs before Won't you tell us briefly about this law? Well, as you also know New York was the first state to pass an anti-bias law Did this in March 1945 It became effective July 1, same year Governor Dewey immediately appointed a commission to administer the law It's not a political commission It has members of both major parties on it And the former editor of Opportunity, Mr. Elmer A. Carter, is one of the commissioners And a relative of yours, Mr. Carter? No, I can't claim any kin, Mr. Chase But I want to tell you this It's a very interesting and satisfying job being a commissioner Or, as in my case, field representative We have that inner satisfaction That we are doing something we believe in Something that is going to help lift the bitter burden of unfair discrimination Which so many peoples have borne so long Well, I really appreciate your attitude, Mr. Carter Incidentally, I see that you've been breaking into the news quite a bit recently I saw articles in all the papers about the commission's decision in the Brooklyn Borough gas case That's right And incidentally, Commissioner Elmer A. Carter was the man who headed that investigation, Mr. Chase Well, I want to talk more about that case with you But first, I'd like you to tell our listeners about filing a complaint of discrimination I'd like for every one of our listeners to know that In order to wipe out discrimination Every person who has reason to believe he or she has been discriminated against in employment Should take immediate action First, come down to the offices of the commission at 124 East 28th Street, is that right? Yes, and if not able to come down, the person can write to the commission and tell the facts The important thing is doing something about these things Well, now, if I should apply for a job that I'm really qualified to fill And they tell me no Negroes want it Well, is that discrimination? Of course The law says that you cannot discriminate against a person because of his race, creed, color, or national origin If I apply for a job and they tell me no Catholics or no Jews or no Italians, that is out And of course there is no charge for filing a complaint None at all And you don't need a lawyer Simply come to the commission offices And someone is assigned to hear your story And help you draw up your complaint 124 East 28th Street Well, now to get back to that Brooklyn Borough gas case A lot of us feel that the commission did a real swell job in that investigation It was very thorough The commission investigated old departments It went over, in the past ten years, the list of all of those who had been hired and fired And in the end, the commission made recommendations Which it felt would give minority groups a more equal opportunity Of getting jobs with the company Of course, the gas company already had various members of minority groups working for them And the company really accepted the recommendations of the commission for future hiring? Yes, they did As a matter of fact, they showed a most cooperative spirit throughout the proceedings Well, it looks to me as if a big hurdle has really been jumped in this race to end discrimination First, the telephone company situation which the commission handled And I understand a lot of Negroes have qualified for operators' jobs And now, this gas company investigation settled in such a way as to ensure no more discriminatory practices We are making progress, Mr. Chase But again, I would like to say that a law to be effective must have wholehearted support of the people Did you hear that, folks? Well, get behind the New York law against discrimination today If you hear of any discrimination, tell the person who is a victim of it to go down to the offices of the commission And to file a complaint And if any of our listeners think they have been victims of such practices, they must do likewise The present address is 124 East 28th Street And now, thank you, Mr. Carter, for talking to us tonight We feel that Freedom's Ladder is leading out of the depths of discrimination and prejudice To the free air and the climate of goodwill and cooperation among all races, all creeds, and all colors And now, it is my very special honor to introduce one of the finest baritones on the concert stage today You saw him first a few years back in Four Saints and Three Acts by Gertrude Stein And more recently in George Gershwin's opera Porgy and Bess Edward Matthews sings for you now Invictus by Bruno Hume Out of the night that covers me Black as a pit from pole to pole I take whatever gods may be For my unconquerable soul In the pale clutch of circumstance I have not winced nor cried aloud Under the bludgeonings of chance My head is bloody but unbound Beyond this bliss of wrath and tears Looms but the horror of the shade And yet the menace of the years Finds And shall find me unafraid It matters not how straight the gate How charged with punishments the scroll I am the master of my fate I am the captain Of my soul And so we bring to a close Freedom's Ladder Tonight Freedom's Ladder brought you the Triangle of Rhythm Edward Carter, field representative of the State Commission Against Discrimination Eddie Matthews, concert artist Melba Pope, composer and pianist And your master of ceremonies was Bill Chase Of the New York Amsterdam News Freedom's Ladder is produced and directed by Clifford Burdett This is the Municipal Broadcasting System Higher Outstanding