Good evening from the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in New York City. We're attending a little family dinner held by the Press Photographers Association of New York in order to present the merit awards to be given under a set of resolutions adopted by the association a year ago. These are to be presented in three categories. One award is to be presented to the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Another to Joseph Rosenthal of the San Francisco Chronicle for his very famous picture for which he is probably best known, his picture of the flag raising on Iwo Jima. And the third merit award is to be given to Joseph Costa of the King Features Syndicate. The trophies collected by Mr. Costa during his photographic career, including such classics as the widely printed picture of the Bonus Army's first clash with Washington policemen in 1932, and his air shot of Hauptmann's casket being removed from the New Jersey State Prison at Trenton. Our master of ceremonies is the ex-president of the Press Photographers Association of New York, William Bill Finn, who at this moment has just been introducing some of the celebrities on the dais, as well as requesting some famous photographers to stand from their tables on the floor of the Grand Ballroom here at the Hotel Ritz-Carlton. And Mr. Finn is now concluding a brief peroration, and so we take you to the dais, and the next voice you'll hear will be that of William Bill Finn. ...to decide these things. And to those who nominated people who were not the winners this year, let me say that those names are being kept in the association files. And as the years go on, we know that those people will never cease to be our friends, but each year, as these wonderful things they do for us and for our profession, that maybe in a subsequent year they will be the winner of the award in the particular group that has been set up to take care of their particular field. Now, we went down through the list, and we arrived at three winners. And I would like the kind permission of the mayor to reverse the agenda. I think it's all right, because I got the agenda out of the Bible. Because it says, the last shall be first, and the first shall be last. Now, in group three, I'd like to read just briefly part of the section under what it's set up under. For continuous constructive service on the part of a member of the Press Photographers Association of New York, through a prolonged period which shall have resulted in or contributed to mechanical, chemical, or other scientific or technical improvement in press photography, or which shall have promoted the cause of press photography as an institution, or which shall be considered by the Board of Trustees of the Press Photographers Association of New York. Sufficiently unusual or extraordinary as to call for high combination and official recognition, and there's a bit of a typographic error here. Well, that is neither here nor there. That was the one that gave the trustees the most trouble. It gave us a lot of trouble after we had arrived at a decision to make the man accepted, the man we had decided upon. And let me tell you a very odd story about that. There's many times that I've heard it said that there's people closest to you who are doing things, well, you just more or less take them for granted, and you overlook them. I don't think we had ever overlooked the deeds and accomplishments of this particular man, but it took a number of nominations from outside the city, from all parts of the country, to make us sit up and take notice to say, well, now maybe we have not been paying enough attention to this particular man. And we arrived at the decision, and then as I say, it took two meetings further to convince the man that he should accept the award. I know this man because I have worked with him as a photographer and in association work for a good many years. And he has worked hard and long, and the association showed the fruits of his labor. And there's an old saying that there is more joy out of giving when you give of yourself. Then if that's true, Joe Costa must be a very happy man because through the years he has given more of himself than any single press photographer that I know. So I'd like very much to have you tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Something slipped for a moment, but you never saw a photographer stuck yet. The awards are somewhere on the way in. But we knew that these fellows could never carry these things around like sandwich men saying, I got these from the press photographers. So we thought of another gift that would go with it. Now, the New York, the Press Photographers Association of New York does not have any associate members. Maybe that's fortunate because if we made the mayor an associate member, chances are 10 to 1 next week he'd be on a committee. So we thought of this key idea. Now, we know that these men who receive these, we feel that they'll be proud of these awards. So the key of their being able to let their friends know that they have this is this little emblem which we hope they'll carry. And when they ask for an explanation, it's a little switch and it's a little better motive than come up and see my etching. It's come up and see my scroll. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests and fellow press photographers, ladies, you all know how long-winded I normally am because I am so enthused about the things we're doing. So you'll forgive me if I've taken the trouble to condense my feelings and my thoughts on paper and if I give it to you in this fashion. I come here with a deep sense of responsibility to the profession I represent, news photography. The award which you have so generously elected to make in my name is an honor of which I am deeply conscious. To be so honored fills me, I assure you, with humility. Needless to say, I am sincerely grateful. But in accepting this honor, I hope that you will permit me to make at least one reservation to your committee's citation. It is not for any individual accomplishments, nor for anything that I might personally have done, that I accept this award of merit tonight. Instead, I am here as one whom you have chosen to represent all working press photographers who are today striving to raise their status in the important role they occupy in the national scene. I accept this award as a tribute that honors the spirit which today animates all working press photographers rather than the isolated deeds of any one of us. In this role, I speak to you as a member of a new generation of news picture craftsmen, not in age but in thinking, that is now taking its place on the stage of the American press. From their ranks must come many who will assume leadership and perform important tasks in preserving our way of life tomorrow against those who would destroy it. They use as their only weapon against un-American trends, the truth as exposed by the camera's eye. This new generation of press photographers takes over in a period of grave uncertainties. How well they equip themselves of the obligations that rest upon them is of great importance to the free press of America, and thus is also of great importance to the future of the nation. Perhaps you will permit me to speak for them tonight as representing their viewpoints, their estimates of the tasks that lie ahead. Recognition for outstanding achievement has long been customary in many fields of endeavor, in research, in the fine arts, in business, and even in war. These honors have done much to spur men to greater accomplishments. Now, a new school of press photography that combines personal sense of responsibility with technical perfection is being evolved, and awards such as these by the Press Photographers Association of New York establishes our craft on a plane with the other arts and professions. There is much to be done, however. First of all, we represent photographers, we press photographers must, by our conduct, by our professional ethics, by individual dignity, by our continuous sense of responsibility, deserve the new status into which we are emerging. While we are not concerned in any way with so-called labor relations, our objectives do include a definite attempt to attain the public working conditions which our obligation to the public requires. Second, the courts and all other sources of news must be open to the press photographer on the same basis that they are now open to his brother of the typewriter. Until this is done, there can be no complete freedom of the press. In this aim, we ask the support of all editors and public officials everywhere, since a basic issue of maintaining a completely free press is involved. Only in the darkness where the camera cannot go, can our American way of life be attacked. There must be no such darkness in America. There are other objectives, but these two are most important immediately. Time does not permit discussion of the other aims. The Press Photographers Association of New York, with which I have long been intimately associated, and in which I will always continue to have a deep and abiding interest, has pioneered the way in these new concepts of our responsibility to the press and the public. Under the active leadership of Mr. Harry Harris of the Associated Press, I am sure that this virile organization will continue to set the pace for the nation. It is in good hands, working together in coordinated harmony, the New York and National Press Photographers Associations can accomplish great good for the press, the nation, and the craft of press photography. In accepting this award of merit, on behalf of the press photographers of tomorrow, therefore, I have no hesitation in pledging to you that we will not be unmindful of the position of trust and responsibility, which is our day-to-day obligation. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I would like to read the text of the script, that the scroll has been awarded to Mr. Costa. I think it tells it much more adequately than I did. The Press Photographers Association of New York presents this award of merit to Joseph Costa, past president of the Press Photographers Association of New York, and president of the National Press Association of New York, the National Press Photographers Association of New York, inspiring all members by his example, the enterprise, energy, and efficiency that he exerted in completing all of the duties assigned him, and his far-sighted constructive labor, which overcame every obstacle and attained every objective. No man ever cheats so much for the power and prestige of our profession. And I think it's all very adequately summed up in a quotation from Kipnis. For there isn't a job on the top of the earth that this fellow don't know or do. Our particular profession is my belief never received the impetus through the years that it did through the years of the last war. The entire American newspaper and magazine meeting population became so used to see every phase of the war. For trade pictures, I mean everything but the top drawer secrets. That it became part of the daily fare. And I'm very happy to say that I sincerely believe that it is carried over. to the practice today, I think, will grow and grow and grow, and that more and more newspapers will resort to pictures than they never have before. Now, out of the war came hundreds and hundreds of thousands of splendid photographs that were made by both men in the service and men who went abroad and risked their lives as correspondents. But the man who the association has given the second merit award to made a picture. It was one of a whole series of pictures that made it down that particular cage. Unfortunately, this one more or less overshadowed, shadowed all the others. But as long as the press photographer, no matter where he be, whenever the picture of the Iwo Jeebo flag raising is mentioned, he's able to say why that was made by a press photographer, I think Joe Rosenthal did something for us that we never can repay. And it is indeed an honor. Thank you, Bill, and ladies and gentlemen. Here I feel sandwiched in between personages that really are of great merit, and I feel like just a little piece out of the past. The war is gone. We hope we don't have another one like it again. It was a very difficult war to cover from the press photographer's viewpoint. And I'm thinking of people like Frank Christ of Acme, who gave everything he had at Teclopen. John Buscemi of Yank Magazine, who gave his at Parry. Bede Irwin on the Normandy Beach. And of the incomparable Damien Perrer of Paramount News Service. I'm a very lucky guy. I happened to be where I was. And I happened to make the snapshot that I made. I happened to get it back. And I happened to be good enough for the recognition that we've been so generous in giving. And I'm more proud than anything that this recognition is echoed and re-echoed by the members, the fellow members of my craft. It means more to me than anything. I want to thank you all very much indeed. I'm very happy to be here. Thank you. I'd like to read the text of the scroll given to Mr. Rosenthal. The Press Photographers Association of New York presents this award of merit to Joseph Rosenthal for his photographing of the Battle of Iwo Jima, crowned by the raising of the stars and stripes on Mount Suribachi, a masterpiece of planning and execution carried to perfection at high hazard under heavy fire and which will stand forever as a symbol of press photography in its highest form. Now, I'd like, before I go on to the next award, I'd like to go back to Joe a minute. I dispute several things with him. He speaks, and I've heard him say it before, about he was lucky. I disagree with him a whole lot because I feel in our business, you make your luck. There's no such thing as luck. You are lucky once in a while, but it's not all luck. It's a lot of manufactured luck. And Joe, I don't want you spreading any rumors among these editors because they're around looking for good horse players and just hire lucky photographers. There's another thing about Joe. I mean, this is a terrible temptation, and I can't resist it, to stray over into the editorial side of the newspaper business, and maybe beat the columns to a little item. I think it's an item. Because when I went to the hotel today to meet Joe, as I got outside the room, I heard him practicing on lullabies, and nobody ever sang a lullaby when they were getting a new Buick. Now, the last, but by no manner or means the least, of the Merit Awards. There's an old saying that the road to you-know-where is paved with you-know-what. And for a great many years, the press photographers of this city had been promised. And they had been promised. I think there are enough paving blocks of promises. And every big news event that came off was literally a hell. I know it is a rugged craft. We don't expect to have things that every time you make a ten-foot shot to have somebody unroll a red carpet so that you can walk up and make it. We never did expect it. We never will expect it. But we went on, and we were getting old and rugged on these promises. On the 1st of January, 1946, a new administration took over here in the city. And, of course, we waited. Because we had known the man who was the head of that administration, known very intimately and closely for a good many years. And we hoped that he would go on being just the man that he had always been, and we'd enjoy that splendid relationship which has been ours through the years. Well, the first sign that it was going to continue was when Mr. William Dunney, who I introduced to you before, was appointed an Eliasen officer with the press in addition to his numerous other duties. Things looked very, very good. I'd like to tell you something about these fellows, and the mayor in particular. He's the first, the only man that I have ever gone to looking for something to be done for the association. And it was done. But I came away with the feeling that instead of my being in the normal position, the mayor made me feel as though I was bestowing on him a great honor by allowing him to do this. Well, believe it or not, and I guess you'd realize it, it was a terrific temptation, and it took a lot of willpower to keep the request within reason. And I think the mayor will agree that we have never and never will ask for anything that is unreasonable. We only ask for things that will enable us to bring to our editors a better picture. And he is the first mayor to recognize that while we are all in a different line of endeavor, we all have a common duty, and that is public service. And everything that, as I say, within reason, we've kept them within reason, that has been asked in order to facilitate our work has been granted by the mayor, and that feeling has gone on right down through every department in the city. And I know that at no time has from our end of it will he ever, ever regret anything that he has done for us. I'd like very much at this time to present to Mayor William O'Dwyer the award, merit award, the first photography association. I'm going to switch better. I read them afterwards before this one I'll read first. The Press Photographers' Association of New York presents this award of merit to the City of New York, Honorable William O'Dwyer Mayor, whose administration of the City of New York has recognized the press photographer as a chronicler of current history and whose administration as a result has given full official cooperation to the profession of photojournalism. And then I'd like to quote there, a city is not built in a day, our little town cannot complete her soul till countless generations pass away. Thank you. Finn, Joe Costa, Joe Rosenthal, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, I didn't know until perhaps the last 60 seconds why it was that I was selected for this honor. Now I know, huh? This has been, if nothing else, it's been more than that, a pleasant, warm, friendly evening, one that I've enjoyed very much, chiefly because I have known so many people here so intimately and well over so many years. Of course, looking at the evening and at the occasion and trying to organize enough thinking to make words count, I can go back in life so much further than anyone in the room, back to the beginning of photography practically, almost back to the tintite. And as years have gone by within the last, say, 15 years, I've had personal reason to come in contact with the various media of communications in those peacetime days prior to the war. We've seen, most of us, many of us in this room, have seen things happen that we've taken for granted. we've seen the newspaper, the magazine, and the book, and there are very few people in this room who are old enough to doubt that there was a day when you didn't have the printed word. And yet, it's so very short in years and point of time since the day in Germany that that first Bible was printed. What that did to bring the peoples of the world close together is difficult to estimate. That one discovery, that one plan by which day by day improvements came, and before you knew it, we had the books of the ancients, and we had the books of the moderns, then we had the pamphlets, then we had those, that age of SS, and then it came down to, even in our land here, down to the beginning of things where men and women struggle with great difficulty to live, and then came the first burnings of liberty, first call for freedom, and they came into our picture in our 13 colonies from a people who had listened solely to the preacher. There came the beginning of Benjamin Franklin era, and before you knew it, a revolution took place, freedom was the word, we passed on beyond the war of 1812, and came down to perhaps the romantic age of literature, of Malden, Emerson, later on, Whitman, and out of that there came such an age of business, an age of machinery, a concentration of people in cities, and we came to the day when our newspapers were as necessary as breakfast, where people depended upon them for the news of the day. While that all was going on, there came that day not too long ago when you had the telegraph and parts of our nation that had been won by blood, by men and women who pushed their way across through forests and mountains and rivers and plains until they hit those valleys. There were times, if you believe it, when Bret Hart's stories came in here from valleys in California from mining camps where the people wouldn't believe what a mining camp looked like. We read it in his short stories. We read them today. The Kintuck, Groering Camp, and all those other stories that preceded the Mark Twain era. Well, look what happened today. Then there came the trains, there came those steam engines that went over and bound us closer, and the printed word and the newspaper and the telegraph kept us acquainted with one another. We knew what we were doing. And then came the the radio. That came. Then came highways and automobiles and then came the radio. So that today, if we didn't have the press photographer to record with pictures, we'd still have a very fine system of worldwide communications. And it's a remarkable thing that even with your airplanes and even with your fast ships and your fast trains, that in itself, that speed is not enough to bring the peoples of the world closer. That wouldn't be enough. You have to have an addition, a clear-cut word picture of what is going on in this place and that to thoroughly understand. Then comes this new development, this recent, imperatively, recent development, the work of the press photographer. I'm glad that Billy Finn called attention to the work of the photographer during the war. Now, you can send, you gentlemen of the inside office of the newspapers, you can send your best men over to foreign places, your best trained men, your best observers, and they can tell the people of the political reaction, the general condition of what they see. But we have something else that is of great importance to the world today, and that is this new, comparatively new medium that brings you the actual photograph of the occurrence, the photograph of a thing, so that as you open your newspaper, your magazine, you have right in your hand as if the condition you're looking at was outside of your door, as if it was your neighbor. And the people that you look at in are human beings. They mean something. When they're down and out and when they're crushed, you know that you have a reaction. you know that that is something that makes people think because of its clarity, because of the pointedness with which it brings the message to you. And I'd say, ladies and gentlemen, from a long time of living and looking on, that you, the press photographers, are in the very beginning of a great era for your contribution to world communications. I'm glad that Bill mentioned what the press photographer did during the war. And I'm glad that modest little Joe mentioned some of the figures who paid their full price and performance of their work, realizing their responsibility. I'm glad he brought their names up here tonight, so that we, just for a passing moment, might know that when the call came, they stood up and accounted that is perhaps the strongest measure of devotion that your craft could claim or that anyone else or any other craft could claim. And it reflects on everyone in it to great advantage. Now, as to why I'm here, well, I've read it, Bill, I've heard you read it. I still don't know why I'm here, why I'm here. I know why Joe Costa's here. I know why Joe Rosenthal is here. But I'll accept it without too much question. The way that I look at it is that in running a city or helping to manage it, there is a terrific responsibility where we need all the help that we can from everybody. Now, the word of what goes on in New York, when it's good, I'd like to see it go out of New York and all over the state and all over the nation and all over the world. When it's not so good, well, gentlemen, we'll charge it up to the editorial room. but here is a city that really can, of which we can well be proud. I am proud of it. I was proud of it when I came into City Hall. I'm still proud of it. And I, I'm proud of the future that I know it has, of the I'm fully conscious of the small part I personally would play in that. I know what 8 million people have in their minds generally. I know how they regard the responsibility of citizenship. I'm proud of a town that is made up of every racial strain that there is in this world. Men and women and children who have proven to a confused world that the ideal of the United Nations is not a foolish one because we have lived it and we are living it and we will continue to live it in peace and in harmony within our own gates. And anyone who doubts that the nations and peoples of the world can be brought together in the same peace and harmony, all they have to do is look at what we, the 8 million, are doing in New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And this, ladies and gentlemen, this city has a great growth physically yet, and all of us have an obligation and have a responsibility for that. But the growth that we look forward to is not particularly the physical growth, but the growth in idealism. When, as this administration was brand new, when we didn't have too much money to work with, and when we had great demands for much more than we had, and the message came that this ideal of the United Nations was dedicated to saving the world from another war, dedicated to the protection of the children and the unborn children, from ever having to go through that again, we invited them here, fully knowing that if they came, we'd have to go to great expense to make this their home, and they honored us by coming, and we have gone to great expense, and no serious question has ever been raised in New York City against their coming, but on the contrary, a glorious applause for any efforts that we would make to make this home that they selected a comfortable home and a pleasant place, and no one could know what New York has done in that regard, who could doubt the austerity of our people, that we don't want again another war anywhere. pretty soon, in fact, this week, we actually got to settling permanently the timetable for the new buildings for the United Nations. On the first of July, the contractors will be in on the site, demolishing the existing buildings. And the latter months of 1948, about a year and a few months from now, their first building will be occupied, provided our materials and everything else goes according to schedule. Now, I'd say that in that one regard alone, where the activities of the whole world, concentrated here in Manhattan, that we have just that one alone as a job for the press photographer. We've gone back over the war, for many of us. You don't want to read about it. You don't want to go over the written word. You've seen that, read it. Many of us have been here, there, and everywhere. But whether you were close up to it or away from it, you like from time to time to turn those pictures over again, just to look at them. It has that kind of appeal. You like, for example, to see those figures at the altar at the altar, and those figures out on a ship in the Atlantic Ocean, mapping and planning the battle against the enslavement of civilization. All the written words in the world wouldn't be as clear as just one picture. dear departed faces of that era, you like to look at them every once in a while. I don't think anyone, now that that era is over, would ever fail to get a thrill out of seeing a picture of Roosevelt again, either in Saudi Arabia, on the ship, in Yalta, in Moscow, in London. It's just that pinpoint of history. When you see that in that photograph, there it is, without any change, without any buildup, precisely as it was. That's my viewpoint of your profession. You have a great mission to perform. You have a fine organization. The men who have come to us in your organization have been friendly, have been reasonable, asked for nothing that wasn't proper, asked for nothing that it wouldn't have been ashamed to deny them. Why, Billy, you'll never ask for anything that didn't belong to you. Of course we didn't consider that we were doing you a favor to do this for you or that. perfect. Maybe let's do this have a change or that won't go and Aubrex will see you again, we're as inяли too, to have to witness does act firsthand and say it