One particular characteristic in both the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki was the virtually complete breakdown of all essential services and facilities. In Hiroshima and in Tokyo, the major part of the destruction was due to huge fires which combined into a great firestorm. About 70 percent of the firefighting equipment was destroyed and about 80 percent of the personnel. With regard to the casualties, there was again a complete breakdown of all medical facilities. Of the 200 odd doctors in Hiroshima at the start of the attack, only 20 survived. Of about 1,800 nurses, slightly over 100 survived. And of the 47 hospitals, only three could be used. Well, you see then that the principal characteristic of such an attack is the breakdown of facilities. And that, of course, is the reason for a concerted civil defense effort. In both of these cities, remember that the bomb came without warning upon populations which were completely unsuspecting. Had they been prepared for an emergency of that magnitude, there is no question but that the loss in life and the destruction to property would have been far less. Now, the purpose of this course, as you can see from the outline that has been given to you, is to prepare you in the many phases of civil defense. It's necessary, I believe, to urge upon you a calm and judicious attitude toward the entire question of civil defense. As has been pointed out by previous speakers, there is very serious danger that the people in our community will not react properly in time of crisis. The question of panic must be met and met in a very straightforward fashion. There is a very real danger of panic. It must be avoided at all costs. But now to return to what has been given as the title of this talk, the atom bomb, we want to indicate first that in many respects the atom bomb is no different from conventional bombs. But in certain respects, it is. The first of those might be the following. In this one single bomb can be contained an amount of energy thousands of times greater than what is contained in a large conventional bomb. Secondly, at the time of the explosion, a very penetrating radiation is emitted, which can do serious harm to personnel. Thirdly, the products which remain after the bomb explodes are themselves highly radioactive. they can continue to emit this penetrating radiation for some time thereafter. It's because of those principal differences that the atom bomb has received so much attention, and certainly it warrants an increased amount of attention, because certain of those differences have not been met with before in any respect. But now suppose that we consider the possibility of an atom bomb attack on New York City. There are three ways in which the bomb might be exploded. There are three ways in which the bomb might be exploded. First, it might be exploded on the ground. It might be exploded in the air. It might be exploded in the air. Or it might be exploded in the water. There's presumably a fourth. It could be exploded underground. But I think you'll see in a short while that that fourth can be discounted to a great extent. Of those three possibilities, it is very easy to see that the explosion in the upper atmosphere is the one which is most feasible, from the point of view of maximum destruction. Now, the two explosions in Japan were such upper atmosphere explosions. The explosions there, in both cases, occurred at an altitude of about 2,000 feet. Now, let's inquire into the reasons for that very briefly. The very basic reason is that, fundamentally, the atom bomb in its present form is not a very effective sort of weapon. Now, I don't mean by that to underestimate its potential power. What I do mean, however, is that of all the energy which it does contain, is that of all the energy. Releasing that energy at a single point is wasteful of the energy. If somehow one could take this single bomb and divide it up into many small ones and detonate them at various points over a city, the destruction would be far greater. To indicate that point a little more strongly, remember that the bomb over Hiroshima did a certain amount of damage. The bomb was said to have an energy content of about 20,000 tons of TNT. Yet it has been estimated by bombing surveys that the same amount of destruction could have been accomplished with about 300 tons of TNT. Keeping that point in mind, the fact that because all of this energy is released at a single point, it is not extremely effective, you then look for the point where it would be most effective. Obviously, there is no point in wasting that energy in digging a hole in the ground. If the explosion did occur on the ground, much of the energy would go into digging a crater. Secondly, the buildings nearby, that is those which are closest to the point of detonation, effectively would shield those buildings which are further away. In World War II, it came to be a recognized fact that a 500-pound demolition bomb, which contains about 200-odd pounds of explosive, had an effective radius of about 50 feet. It is if a person was within 50 feet of such a bomb, the probability of his becoming a casualty was very high. Well, the atom bomb produces the same pressure at a distance of one mile. And so it becomes necessary to revise these estimates of distance. If the bomb is exploded on the ground, you can see that in the cities such as New York, the distance of one mile could not be met. The buildings which are close to the point of explosion effectively would shield those buildings and those persons further away. That leaves the other two possibilities, an explosion in the upper air, an explosion in the water, in the water of a harbor, say, adjoining a city. Of those two possibilities, there are decided differences. In the first place, as far as effective, maximum effective destruction is concerned, there is no question but that the upper air explosion would be more desirable. There, one would get the maximum effectiveness capable from this bomb. There is no question of destruction of buildings and producing casualties. However, when the bomb is exploded at an altitude of 2,000 feet or higher, these radioactive products in general do not come down to the ground. The experience in Japan was that the areas in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were not made radioactive. There is then the one advantage and the one disadvantage in exploding it in the upper atmosphere. One, you get a maximum initial casualty. But two, you do not make the area radioactive. On the other hand, if you were to explode the bomb underneath the water, let us say in the harbor adjoining a city such as this, there would be much fewer casualties initially. There would be much less destruction to buildings. But the water would be made radioactive, would undoubtedly be poured over the city. And so you would deny the use of certain areas to the population for some time thereafter. It's difficult for me, not being a tactician, to decide which, from a military point of view, is the more desirable. One can well imagine that an enemy might want to do both. And so one might presumably be prepared for an attack in which both would happen. An explosion in the upper atmosphere, an explosion under the water. Another few minutes that remain, let's see just what does happen when the bomb explodes. This, you will realize, is just an introduction to the entire subject. It will be taken up again in greater detail during this course. For this purpose, we will assume the explosion to be in the upper atmosphere, just as in the two Japanese bombings. At the instant of explosion, the first thing that happens, of course, is an enormous increase in illumination. The bomb appears as a brilliant ball of fire, and several things happen within the very first second. Within that first second, this ball of fire grows to a maximum diameter of about 900 feet. There is no other good description for this. Simply a ball of fire. In intensity, it is many hundreds of times brighter than the sun. Because of the enormous temperatures in this ball of fire, a shock wave starts out. The shock wave, or blast wave as it's sometimes called, is caused by the heating of the air due to this huge increase in temperature. As far as its effects upon structures are concerned, when the shock wave hits a structure, it's as though a giant hammer blow fell upon the wall of the building. The destruction to structures is caused primarily by this shock wave. There is apparently very little direct effect upon personnel of the shock. By direct effect, one might mean such things as the collapse of internal organs. Such direct effects are experienced with chemical bombs, but not with the atom bomb. However, the injuries to personnel, which we classify as mechanical injuries, are caused indirectly by the flying debris, collapsing buildings, and in particular by flying glass. With regard to the question of flying glass, it's important to note a distinction between the atom bomb and the conventional explosives. Suppose we consider again the example of the demolition bomb, a 500-pound bomb. As you may recall, those of you who had this experience in the last war, a characteristic of chemical bombs is that the windows invariably fall outward. A characteristic of the atom bomb is that the windows invariably fly inward. The reason for that is a rather basic one. First of all, this 500-pound demolition bomb, when it does explode, gives you a pressure wave which lasts only about 1 200th of a second. A very short time, too short a time for the glass to go anywhere. The glass may be weakened, it may start to move, but in 1 200th of a second it cannot accelerate sufficiently to move out of the pane. Then following this pressure phase comes the well-known suction phase, which is many times longer. The glass, having been weakened by the pressure phase, then falls out in the suction phase. Not so with the atom bomb. There, the pressure phase lasts about one second, about 200 times longer. And that time is sufficient for the glass in the window to fly inward. That constitutes then an additional hazard to the occupants of the buildings. That is in buildings which may be several miles away from the point of detonation. Buildings in which ordinarily the occupants would not be injured. There, the glass flying inward does constitute a very real hazard. The second thing that happens within this first second is the enormous thermal or heat radiation which spreads out from this ball of fire. This heat radiation is very similar to the heat which you've experienced from a fireplace or from a stove. It's not a question of the air being hot. It's just a question of the heat radiating through the air and absorb being absorbed in your bodies. This heat radiation is so great that at distances of several miles primary fires can be started in combustible materials. By primary fires we mean fires which are started within the first second or so. And they're started by the fact that the surface temperatures at distances of several miles are high enough to ignite materials such as paper and wood. The corresponding effect upon personnel is what we call flash burns. These may be very serious third degree burns out to distances of the order of two miles. Finally, with regard to structures, we may have secondary fires starting. These secondary fires are typical of any explosion. radiation due primarily to the collapse of structures disrupting utilities, gas mains, electric wiring, and so forth. The corresponding effect upon personnel we call flame burns. Then finally, there's another type of radiation which has little or no effect upon structures, and that is the nuclear radiation. You've probably heard a great deal about it. Probably much of what you've heard has been wrong. It's quite true that the nuclear radiation can cause in persons a rather insidious and serious type of illness. An illness which can result in death. But the effects of this radiation have been over-exaggerated in the press several years ago when the bombing of Japan was first announced. We do have to take into consideration the fact that in the bombings in Japan only about 15 percent of the casualties were due to nuclear radiation. The other 85 percent being due to mechanical injuries and to burns. I believe that this has been enough for this one evening. One thing, what I have tried to do is first to indicate the very important fact that the atom bomb is not an absolute weapon, and that something can be done about it. Secondly, to indicate very briefly what the principal effects are in the course of the instruction. We will have much more to say about things. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Seamus. Very inspirational talk of yours, and certainly points up the need for many hands to do this enormous job. As we know, atomic energy today, why it really points up the need for getting in and keeping on top of this training schedule at all times. We have a 12-session or a 13-session schedule laid out here. The last session is just a review. But on Monday, January 22nd at 6 p.m., the training session will take place at the lineup gallery at police headquarters, 240 Center Street. It's important that all attend. And you all have this little booklet on what the topics will be. That is all for this evening, and thank you all for coming. 6 p.m. 6 p.m. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.