Mr. Farrell, Deputy Commissioners and Officers of the Department of Sanitation and Men's. Today we're beginning to point up a drive that must not end today, not tomorrow, but must continue every day. I know that, and you know, that there is nothing as good for the health of the people of this city than to have our streets clean, to have a clean, orderly condition in every part of the city where people live. We know, too, that you and I are no strangers to New York. We know that where you have crowded sections, old buildings that still remain, unfortunately, and will until we can get them out of there, that in those streets they get littered a lot, and sometimes we forget them. We know that there are two parts to keeping the city clean. One is that the people themselves must cooperate to the fullest extent to keep their city clean and healthy. And we know that the Department of Sanitation is the second part, and it must go in and cooperate with the citizens in order to bring that about. Now, I know, gentlemen, of the Department of Sanitation, that three years ago, when we came into office, that you were working under frightful conditions. I also know that you had practically no equipment at all. Now, you haven't got all your equipment yet. But we're getting it, and we will get it, just as soon as the factories can turn it out. The thing is, that if we go after this now, with a will, we have proclaimed this Sanitation Week, Cleanliness Week, whatever you call it. What we have in mind is that we get everyone educated to need a cooperation. And if we start now when the weather is beginning to get mild, and when we don't have any further worry with snow and ice, we can give the city the cleanest streets it has ever had or has in recent years. One of the things that I want the people of the city to know is the great admiration that I personally have for the work of the officers and men of the Sanitation Department. I have confidence in the department because I know that they struggled under hardships that no other department had to handle in the three years that I've been here in City Hall. I know that every man Jack has done the best they could, but this is a tremendous job. Now, with the improved equipment and with the hearty spirit and the good will on the part of the people, and with that same morale and spirit on the part of the department, I know that we're going to give a satisfactory showing for this balance of the spring and the summer and the fall. And when the snow comes again, well, this is a good time to remind the people of the city what the department of sanitation did with that 19.5 snowfall this Sunday before Christmas. Even though we have leaves on the trees and the sun is warm and we can all stand around here nice and comfortable, and that's no reason why we should forget or why the city should forget what the department of sanitation did under that emergency. It has been agreed in writing by the outstanding people of this city that you gentlemen performed almost a miraculous job on that occasion. Now comes a different situation. Now comes the... That spider bottom gets my hair over. All right. For those of you that are listening in, I'm not talking to them now because the spider top is going on behind. They wouldn't hear me anyhow, but I've prepared to talk to them now. All right. Gentlemen! Let's go to work, Let's do the best we can now, and at last let the binoyce excuses this year. Pay as much attention, I hope, Commissioner Powell and commissioners and officers, as much attention as you can possibly give to the crowded neighborhoods where they do need extra attention. I was up to Harlem the other day because I'd heard that there were some bacon locks up there that were in bad shape. I have pictures here today to show that two days after, we went up and looked a moment. There wasn't a cleaner job in the whole city. Well, that costs us extra money, costs us extra manpower, but the job is a pleasure to look at. It's a great thing for me to have a department of sanitation before me today. Talking to you, and at the same time talking to the people of the city through this instrument that I have here that I'm talking into. Telling you and telling them that this job can be done and it must be done. And that we ask the help of the people to cooperate with one of the finest departments in the entire city or nation. Bill Powell, my compliment to you, to everyone in the department. I hope that the grand thing received a spirit with which you have carried on under these frightful conditions. Now that you have better conditions, I know that we want to show how to do the job. Thank you very much. Thank you.