Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Fire Commissioner Frank Whale, Director of the Fire Emergency Unit of Civil Defense. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Well, today we will discuss firefighting, the front line of civil defense. Atomic warfare has increased the problems of civil defense far beyond the perimeter of World War II. The missiles of modern attack cause conflagrations beyond the capabilities of control by a fire department organized on the level of normal peacetime standards. We have with us Fire Commissioner Frank J. Quale. Commissioner Quale is one of the country's ablest executives in the field of firemanics. Upon appointment as Fire Commissioner, he reorganized the administrative and tactical procedures of the department and vastly improved its efficiency. Will you tell us, Commissioner Quale, what has been done by the fire department in the matter of planning for civil defense? Commissioner, early in 1947, the fire department began preliminary surveys to ascertain basic data that would provide assistance and guidance in the preparation and establishment of plans for fire defense against the catastrophe of atomic bombing. Civil defense cannot closely predict the magnitude of atomic bomb destruction. Variables such as size of bomb used, which will increase with continued scientific research, and effect on our types of construction require detailed planning. However, present knowledge does establish a starting point from which general planning embodying flexibility of operation can develop. Well, Commissioner Quale, as a result of the surveys you have completed, what is your estimate of the personnel and equipment required to augment the present firefighting force? The present peacetime strength of the fire department is personnel, equipment, and facilities of water supply are sufficient to protect the city of New York from destruction by fires encountered during normal times. However, the peacetime standards we have in effect are far below the needs demanded for adequate resistance against the conflagration, resulting from the newer techniques of a strategic bombing. The basic factors considered in our planning were, of course, population, area, number and type of buildings, and the docks, piers, and shipping facilities along our waterfront. However, in view of these totals and with our present available knowledge of the effects of atomic and other explosions, the fire department absolutely requires 5,000 additional full-time paid firemen, and 20,000 auxiliary firemen should be considered as minimum needs. In addition to the personnel you have just mentioned, Commissioner Quale, what are some of your other plans, such as a recruitment and training program for the Auxiliary Fire Corps? Recruitment of members for the Fire Auxiliary Corps has been begun. Applications to enroll in this vital branch of civil defense may now be filled out at any firehouse. Women are eligible to enter the communications branch of the service. I appeal to all persons between the ages of 21 to 55 who are physically able to join us now. Civil service employees not actively engaged in a departmental defense program, candidates for the position of firemen in the fire department, and retired members of the fire department are urged to enroll without delay. The age limit of 55 does not apply to former department members. We have already started a program for the selection of certain ranks of auxiliary officers. Retired members of the department will, of course, be given prior consideration for designation to such ranks. What will be the primary functions of the Auxiliary Corps, and in what manner will its members be trained, Commissioner Quale? The Auxiliary Fire Corps will consist of trained personnel organized and equipped to augment the regular firefighting forces in the event of an emergency. These reserves will be organized as separate fire companies. The Auxiliary Forces will have definite assignments with the regular firefighting units during the period of such an emergency. A regular training program has been established. The course will be comprehensive and contain all the fundamentals taught probationary firemen. A training manual for auxiliary members is in process of completion. A radiological program providing for the instruction of personnel, both regular and auxiliary, is ready. Courses in first aid will also be given. Officer candidates will attend the first sessions at time and place to be later announced. Officer candidates will be asked. How will these auxiliary companies be classified, and what will be their locations in relation to the regular units? The companies of the Auxiliary Fire Corps will be classified as engine companies and will be housed with their own pumping engines and personnel in quarters separate from the regular department units. I fully realize the complications that will develop and the many problems that will have to be resolved before the auxiliary program takes actual form. That brings us to the related subject, that of mutual aid. How far have you gone into this here particular subject, Commissioner Quayle? Commissioner, before closing the discussion regarding the auxiliary force, I would like this opportunity to publicly thank all those patriotic citizens of our city who wrote to the mayor, yourself, and the fire department offering their services. All the letters have been acknowledged and are registered at fire headquarters. I want to commend especially the officers and members of the volunteer fire companies located within the city limits, who have offered the use of equipment as well as personnel. Their organizations will be utilized, and they will become a part of the Auxiliary Fire Corps. Concerning our plans for mutual aid, I am pleased to report the joint arrangements are completed between the city of New York and the counties of Westchester and Nassau for rendering mutual assistance during times of public emergency. Nassau County has 68 firefighting units, and Westchester County has a total of 58. In the mutual assistance plan, all meeting the high standards established for first-line manpower and apparatus. At present, negotiations are being carried on for a similar plan with the state of New Jersey by New York state representatives. To my knowledge, at this particular time, it still remains at that level. That is definite progress, Commissioner. However, what is the situation concerning water supply from the standpoint of fire protection? The water system of New York City, both actual and under construction, meets most atomic defense requirements. The volume is good. Over a billion gallons daily is available. Each borough, with the exception of Richmond, can be supplied from at least two different sources. All systems are interconnected. Therefore, while all primary feeders are vulnerable in varying degrees, their simultaneous disruption is unlikely. An interconnection will permit distribution from unhampered feeders over wide, if not all, of the areas. The surface mains in New York City are laid out in approved gridiron pattern so that water loss through main disruption can be controlled by shutoff or rerouting at every street intersection. In addition to this low-pressure system, there are located in key industrial and hazardous districts, independent high-pressure systems designed for firefighting only. In the event of primary source failure, the high-pressure system can, within three hours, be adequately supplied with seawater. That is very informative, Commissioner. I am particularly interested in the method planned for the utilization of seawater. Can you tell us about this? This city is nearly surrounded by seawater, and full use of this inexhaustible supply must and will be provided when necessary. That's fine, but we have many lakes and swimming pools located throughout the city. Do you contemplate the usage as a means of auxiliary supply? Lakes and outdoor pools are fairly numerous throughout the city, but only those capable of supplying 100,000 gallons or more will be considered in citywide planning. Sanitation flush trucks with capacities of 2,500 or 3,000 gallons can also be pressed into service as a source of supply for fighting small, isolated fires where road conditions permit and extensive relay practices are not justified. Department of Sanitation garages housing flush tanks have been catalogued and their locations spotted on all borough water supply maps. Well, Commissioner Quayle, the radiological effects of an atomic burst will contaminate all water within its area. What provisions have been made to alleviate this condition? Under atomic burst conditions, water and portions of the city will become non-potable or non-existent because of contamination or disrupted service. Huge reserve supplies, the amount now being determined by survey, are carried in gravity and pressure tanks. The chief officers commanding firefighting operations are best qualified to make judicious use of this supply for fire extinguishment or if not needed for such, tanks in areas not contaminated would supply potable water for longer periods. Well, that certainly is a comprehensive survey, Commissioner Quayle. What other plans are currently under consideration? We are now studying and intend to install methods of procedure for related fire activities such as auxiliary fire alarm communications via wire, radio, and messenger and the enrollment of an auxiliary communication corps. The utilization of the Marine Division as a fire defense phase of port security. The mobilization of reserve forces and means of transportation to assign units and or areas where needed. The location of public schools for use as training and mobilization centers. Fire detection due to sabotage, pyromania, or for commercial gain. Coordination of the duties of personnel and the facilities of the fire emergency division with other civil defense divisions. Also, fire prevention. Well, under the heading of fire prevention being one of the major functions of the fire emergency division, Commissioner, will you tell us some of the plans concerning it? No regular firefighting organization, even though greatly augmented with auxiliary services, can be expected to deal with the multitude of fires that would be caused almost entirely by secondary ignition following a possible bomb explosion. It is the responsibility of the citizen to provide for his own fire protection until the arrival of firefighting forces. This responsibility applies also to the owners of apartment houses, hotels, factories, places of amusement, and public assembly, or other buildings where a number of persons are congregated. Now, that program is in accord with the provisions of our overall civil defense plans relating to self-help, the phase of such planning, but it's interesting to go on from here. Will you tell us more, Commissioner Quayle? Well, basically, much of the fire prevention program is founded on the concept of self-help. The individual must exert every effort to protect himself and his family and to save his property from destruction as no help is at hand. Well, thank you, very much, Commissioner Quayle. You are doing a splendid job. The members of your department ought to be commended for the progress they have made. You have been listening to the eighth in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Fire Commissioner Frank Quayle, Director of the Fire Emergency Unit of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense.