No spot in the world indicates the great changes that take place in New York City than the contrasts that are offered right here at the opening ceremonies today of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. The little row of Georgian houses that stood for so many years, for centuries in fact, here on Greenwich Street have made way for this greatest and newest improvement, the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. This improvement will indicate a great deal in the movement of traffic, and that will be utterly and fully explained to you by the distinguished speakers who will take part in the program. We now have the pleasure of presenting as the opening speaker, Mr. George E. Spargo, General Manager of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, who will introduce the Chairman, the Honorable George E. Spargo. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Before introducing the Chairman, I would like to thank those of our friends who have been so kind as to come here today to help us open this $80 million crossing between Manhattan and Brooklyn, the first new crossing in 40 years. There wouldn't be time to name all of the individuals and departments who have been most cooperative in making this project and this ceremony possible. To Ralph Smiley and his competent staff of engineers go the thanks of the authority, and for that matter, the thanks of all of the people of the City of New York. We shall be forever grateful to the public officials who have worked with us and to the bankers who sold our bonds to the public. I would be remiss if I didn't mention the tremendous help that's been given us by Mayor O'Dwyer, especially during that dark period after the war when we inherited this project, resumed construction, and found that we were short $23 million of having enough money to finish the project. His visits to the President and the RFC to smooth the way and provide temporary financing made it possible for us to be here today. Commissioner McLaughlin's repeated trips to Washington to iron out our financial difficulties, added to his continuous efforts on behalf of the authority, were vital to the success of the project. We look forward to the help that will be given us by Mr. William J. Tracy, our new commissioner, on our new projects. Even a rapid description of the work that has been done on this project by Commissioner Moses in the last 11 years would take endless time. I can only say that he has not deviated from his usual practice of being a hard-working, hard-hitting, clear-sighted, straightforward public official who is never too busy to give all of the time and help that is needed to complete a job successfully. I consider it an honor to be asked to introduce today's presiding officer, the chairman of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, the Honorable Robert Moses. The audience please rise. Father in heaven, we implore thy blessings on our beloved city, this vast city, with its giant body bound together like unto a living body of sinews of subways and highways, by arteries of bridges and tunnels, bound together in seeing, speaking, hearing, and reading through television, radio, and press. Father in heaven, we pray thee, be father to our city and its many and varied peoples, thy sons and daughters, that they may know thy will and do thy will. Thou hast placed a light, the torch of liberty, off the headlands, down the bay, for a sign for all to see, and a pledge to all races, that this city shall endure as long as freedom shall endure. The freedom to live by thy will, the freedom to labor by thy will, the freedom to love in accordance with thy command, to love thee and all thy sons as our brothers. Father in heaven, send down the spirit of thy life to sustain the citizens of this city by thy spirit of peace, binding all men with the bonds of brotherhood, guarding all men in their freedom of rights, leading all men into the ways of giving the best of themselves in service to thee and helpfulness to one another. Send down thy spirit of love, O Father in heaven, to preserve us a city in soul as well as in body, keeping our city a haven for the homeless and friendless, the helpless and hopeless, and bless us, all of us, in this solely stricken world with the grace of union with thee now and forever. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. First, we thank for his invocation of the divine blessing on this undertaking that beloved Prince of the Church, Sondal Spellman, who is equally respected by men of all creeds. Second, we lift our glasses to those numerous and unknown who have toiled indoors and out, in office, drafting and counting rooms, in rock, mud and sand, on the rails, in the forges, factories and forests, with brain and brawn, to create this new vehicular passage between Manhattan and Brooklyn, another in the list of water crossings which unify our metropolis. On this otherwise happy occasion, we note with sadness the absence of a loyal friend and associate, Charles Garrison Meyer, along a member of this authority who left us just before this historic milestone was reached. This is no time for history and the long look backward, what with exacting radios, newsreels, television, and a restless audience eager for the official opening of the tunnel. Newscasting has done us at least one good turn. It has enforced compactness and brevity. The sententious Abraham Lincoln need no longer compete with the verbose and turgid Edward Everett. It is reported that the photographer at Gettysburg was unable to get his camera focused before the president had finished his great address. We are delivered by the exigencies of the airwaves from old-fashioned orators because they simply can't compress their wandering thoughts into three or four minutes. Action is the glory of New York. We surge forward in spite of our domestic critics who, like Hamlet, are sickly door with a pale cast of thought. Ours is the prayer of John Drinkwater. Grant us the will to fashion as we feel. Grant us the strength to labor as we know. Grant us the purpose ribbed and edged with steel to strike the blow. Tomorrow, those who go down to the sea in trucks and traffic under deep waters will glide freely through this passage as though it had always been here. The city will take the tunnel in its stride and only visitors will find it remarkable. Those who built it have had their fun and reward in the building. It has been a privilege, not a chore, and we turn to the next thing, asking nothing further of our people than the support of our program. Now I present to you another member of this authority, a tower of strength and its operations, a man who stands like the Iron Duke of Wellington, four square to all the winds that blow, George McLaughlin. Lordship and Commissioner, I paid strict attention to your remarks and I'll pay stricter attention to your instructions, namely, that I am not to exceed three minutes. You said that our artists had been eliminated today because of their inability to compress their thoughts. I have that very distinct advantage over our tales. I need not compress mine for a well-known reason that I have very few. When you walk, when you wake around Bob Moses, you have very few and they are compressed for you and they're easy of execution. Now as a Brooklynite, if I had anything to do with this program or the opening of the tunnel, I would have opened this tunnel yesterday because it's just 67 years ago since we opened the Brooklyn Bridge. Now don't get the impression I was around at that time, I was not. But I was around for the opening of the other two bridges, the Manhattan and the Williamsburg Bridge. I was the unofficial mayor of Williamsburg in or about that time and I got paid the same salary for that job that I get paid for this. Then, that took about 26 years to have two more bridges. Then we come along with this, another 41 years. We've all been making a lot of noise in Brooklyn about our inability to get to Manhattan. Now we have it. And not only does it take us to Manhattan, but to all parts of the state of New York. It's going to cost 35 cents. It's a low fee. That's one of the advantages I'm going to have on you. That's our compensation, a pass through the tunnel. That's what the compensation of the commissioners are. Now one other thing in view of the reference that Bob made to me about finance. we expect to complete the payment of the bridges in about eight or nine years. That's 25 years before the original forecast. It's my own opinion. Don't make any bets on this. In fact, if you live in Brooklyn, you're not allowed to make a bet. It's my prediction that we'll pay off the tunnels in about 15 years. So therefore, it should be a day of great rejoicing. I thank you. No tunnel is better than its approaches, and we are prone to forget how much we owe to the agencies which govern the nearby streets leading to our portals. The next speaker heads the borough which has been responsible for the Manhattan approaches to this tunnel. He and his engineers have given us full cooperation. Borough President Robert F. Wagner, Jr. Mr. Moses, Your Eminence, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great moment in the history of the city of New York. The opening of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel marks another milestone in the continuous effort to improve conditions of travel and traffic within the congested confines of our city. Yet it is not only as an artery of travel that we commemorate completion of this vast undertaking. This magnificent achievement becomes today a symbol of our faith in the vigor and strength of our democratic traditions and institutions. In a world torn by conflicting ideals and ideologies, we have created a monument to the principles we espouse. This tunnel, financed by those who have unbounded faith in the future of our city, is a shining example of what can be accomplished when private enterprise, free labor, and government initiative work hand in hand. This tunnel was planned by a public agency. Its design is the product of the creative effort of civil service engineers. Performance of the job was accomplished by private enterprise working with free labor. labor. I think mankind can look to the future with faith and confidence in the light of this monument to human vision, courage, and initiative. And I feel very proud that the office of the president of the borough of Manhattan has been privileged to play some small role in integrating the tunnel with the major arterial system of our borough. And I know that my distinguished colleague at the other end of the tunnel, John Cashmore, has pushed forward vigorously the plans for integrating the tunnel with the arterial system in Brooklyn. We have completed the link between the tunnel and the Miller Highway. The battery underpass linking the tunnel, the Miller Highway, and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive will be completed early this fall. And we anticipate that we shall let shortly the contract for construction of the South Street elevated highway. We are advancing rapidly plans for improving traffic, business, and living conditions in New York City. The vision with which Mayor O'Dwyer, Commissioner Bob Moses, and his colleagues on the Triborough Bridge Authority pushed forward the tunnel project will inspire all of us to move ahead towards making this city as the capital city of the world a real symbol of democratic life. Thank you very much. Thank you, Bob. In Brooklyn, we built the Gowanus Parkway before the war as an approach to what was planned as a bridge and converted into a tunnel. An equally important approach is the section of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway leading from the Navy Yard to our bridge plaza, an extraordinarily interesting feat of engineering in charge of our longtime friend, the borough president of Brooklyn. From his point of view, the sole purpose of this new tunnel is to convey the entire population from the shadows of Broadway to the sunlight of Gowanus. I present John Cashmore. Thanks, Bob. Cardinal Spellman, Mayor O'Dwyer, Commissioner Moses, President Wagner and distinguished guests, fellow citizens, it is now nearly 10 years since we gathered on the Brooklyn side of the East River to break ground for this project which we are opening officially this morning. On that October day in 1940, it was my privilege to have at my side the late President Roosevelt who came to Brooklyn for the groundbreaking ceremonies. I remember well how one of the speakers that day made an optimistic prediction that the tunnel would be finished in four years. In fact, he invited the President to return in just four years for the opening of the tunnel. But all of us realize what transpired. We have had to wait 10 years for what is taking place today. But across in Brooklyn, we never lost patience. having worked to bring this tunnel into existence, we were more than willing to wait for it. We realized all the time what this great project would mean, not only to Brooklyn and New York, but to the commercial and industrial life of practically the whole country. In Brooklyn, we have spent $12 million on a great new highway which provides one of the approaches to this tunnel. I am glad to announce that the first completed section of this highway is also being open to traffic today. And as you go through the tunnel and turn toward downtown Brooklyn, many of you will ride along that part of the highway. So for Brooklyn, this is really a two-fold celebration. And we have sound reasons for celebrating. In conjunction with the highway, the tunnel will not only become a great time saver, it will relieve traffic congestion. It means that we are at the beginning of a new era of business, industrial, and commercial expansion for Brooklyn. It means that raw materials can be transported from the Brooklyn waterfront to the processing centers of the nation in less time and less expense. Our manufactured products can likewise reach the American market faster and cheaper than ever before. Our waterfront is now the country's leading foreign trade center. how much this tunnel and highway will mean in further advances we cannot begin to estimate. The people of Brooklyn welcome the completion of this tunnel. And it is our fond hope that it will provide a new prosperity for the area, the area, yes, it serves, and for those who use it. Thank you. Thank you, John. We've been fortunate indeed in dealing with responsible and respected labor leaders in accomplishing this task. Our able general manager, George Spargo, our distinguished chief engineer, Ralph Smiley, have had their troubles with wages and contracts, and we have had to assume heavy additional costs which the contractors were unable to bear. Nevertheless, the authority, the contractors, and labor have composed their differences with mutual respect. We especially congratulate the heavy construction unions for their part in forging this important link in the great chain of arterial highways. I give you now Joseph J. Delaney, Vice President of the International Union of Operating Engineers. Commissioner Moses, Mayor O'Dwyer, your remnants. We in organized labor are particularly happy and proud to participate with you today at this ceremony. And we want to pay respect particularly to those men who brave the hazards and face the daily hazards of underwater construction. And particularly to those members of our union that gave their lives and sacrifice to make this project possible. I want to commend the members of the Tunnel Authority for their splendid cooperation. After work was resumed immediately following the war, we found it necessary to seek adjustments in wages to meet the rising cost of living. Mayor O'Dwyer, Commissioner Moses, George Spargo, George McLaughlin, and your chief engineer, Mr. Smiley, was most cooperative. And due to the splendid teamwork of organized labor, management, and the public officials of our city, we are thankful for that cooperation we had received from the inception of the job. Thank you, gentlemen. When Mayor LaGuardia sent for Commissioner McLaughlin and me and asked us to rescue the Queen's Midtown and Brooklyn Battery Tunnels, I reminded him of a prophecy of Jesse Jones, shrewd and able banker, then head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, that someday these busted tunnels and our solvent bridges would all be members of one happy family. Well, that event, also anticipated by Mayor LaGuardia, has come to pass under another mayor. Let me say here that the assumption of complete financial and administrative independence of authorities is rubbish. No agency of government, whether supported by public credit or not, can achieve anything worthwhile without the aid of the highest elective officer and the governing body of the area. We have had such support, enthusiastic and undeviating, from Mayor O'Dwyer, whom I now present to you. Mr. Moses, your eminence, the borough presidents and members of the Bridge and Tunnel Authority, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen. I was happy to see Joe Delaney speak to you because Joe can be proud today of the workmanship of the men that he represents in this tunnel. I'm happy to compliment not only the engineers, George Spargo, and his group of the Bridge and Tunnel Authority, but to Bob Moses especially. Every thanks of this city goes for his energy and thought in following through this magnificent improvement. To George McLaughlin, to the late Charles Miles, again, we owe to these men. What do we owe to them? This tunnel. Years ago, ladies and gentlemen, as a young policeman in Brooklyn, I drove many times over the Old Kings Highway through corn patches, through farms. Today, it's no longer precisely that. But being of an inquisitive turn of mind, I tried to find out why we had the Kings Highway in that part of Brooklyn. And I found that it was a part of the highway by which, in revolutionary times and much later, the people of Boston used to get to Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia. They came down through the New England state, crossed over to the easterly tip of Long Island, came down over the Kings Highway to Fort Hamilton, where they got into a windjammer ferry that took them to Staten Island and from that on to Washington. The people in those days who lived at great distances applied, had a concept of communication. We, in our day, are talking here this afternoon, this morning, locally. We've had the borough president of Brooklyn and the borough president of Manhattan, both excellent gentlemen. We've had them talking as if this tunnel just tied up Brooklyn and Manhattan. Why, Lord love you, this tunnel ties up coast to coast because that's the concept of transportation of today. Without this tunnel, that highway would stop at Brooklyn on the one side and Manhattan on the other as it has stopped since the original concept. Believe it or not, when we came in in 1946, it was well stopped. You had two tunnels, one to Queens and one to Brooklyn. The one to Queens was made, was built. It wasn't paying. This one was a hole in the ground and in that hole was a lot of RFC money and almost the RFC with it. Along came Bob Moses planning as only Bob can plan and I proudly testify to that statement. Along came Bob Moses with the idea that if the bridge authorities' revenues were used as a basis, it would be possible to complete this tunnel and take the RFC out of the hole. This morning, the RFC is back in Washington. it's out of the hole thanks to Bob and his boys. More than that, the natural, normal concept of through construction has been realized. A highway program today that runs all the way from Jones's Beach way past Poughkeepsie. Someday tying in with the new through way, which again will tie up with the New England states, we'll have a contact with our arterial program, the Brooklyn Queens, the Cross Bronx, the New England, the Major Deegan, the bridge to cross somewhere between north of Rockland over the Hudson River, again, clear to Buffalo. From there, someone else will have to think that one out, but it's obvious that the general direction will be west, and then nothing will stop it until it dips its fingers on the Western Ocean. That's the concept of what we're looking at here today. Ladies and gentlemen, you couldn't possibly have this done. With city money, you have to look for projects of this kind to be financed, as this one is financed, as the throughway is going to be financed, by having the people that use it pay for it. What could be more natural than that? What could be more just or right than if you want to use it that you pay your proportionate share of it? If you don't, you just got a farm. If you don't, you just got waters in New York Bay. You just stand there and look at it. But if you want to pass through it in comfort, then be prepared to pay your proportionate share for that use. I don't see how that principle should ever have been under attack. We sometimes are told that if the federal and the state people should come in in the form of aid in these arterial programs, that we'll be bossed by them. Well, I must say to you that we have never suffered from that, and I do not believe that we will. Mr. McDonald handling it from the federal end, Mr. Bertram Tallamy from the state end, Bob Moses working down here, while these three men are around, no one will be annoyed, because there has been in my time a dedication to services such as we attend here this morning, a dedication to that time that is extraordinary, and I do not believe that the millions and millions of people throughout the nation, as well as those locally who will be served by these things, have the slightest idea of the hours, the brilliance of thought, the concentration, the planning, the dedication of these men to public service that goes into these public works. Therefore, this morning, as the mayor of New York City, I'm not speaking with any local narrow viewpoint, but speaking of this project and what it means in a nation that is still crying for improved communication, in that way I speak of it, no honor could be greater than the one that will be mine today to cut that ribbon, to let that flow of traffic go through this tunnel that would ordinarily block our streets trying to reach bridges, something that might never have been needed were our country not so prosperous. If automobiles cost $50,000 apiece, we wouldn't need the tunnel. You'd still be driving horses and buggies around New York. But when you got cheap cars, something to, within the pocketbook of the mass of people, where you have many cars, that calls for more and no glad, that is what we are here to do today, to initiate the tunnel that will, down through the centuries, serve the people not only of Brooklyn and New York, but the people of the nation. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, except for cutting the ribbon, which will be done by the mayor, that concludes the ceremonies this morning. I'd ask that you return to your cars, get in line, and get ready to proceed through the tunnel, during which time the band will play a few selections for you. I want to warn those who are not in automobiles that pedestrians, because of safety measures, cannot be permitted to walk through the tunnel. I'm very sorry, but for your own sake, we must refuse to prevent pedestrians in the tunnel. Thank you. Today, your city station has carried the dedication ceremonies of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel in one of the most astounding improvements here in the south end of Manhattan Island, in the area of the old Dutch settlement. We often wonder if the old Dutchman came back what they would say. It's only a few years ago that these rows of little Georgian houses there that connected us with the 18th century stood here on Greenwich Street, and now that is all passed, and one of the most amazing improvements anywhere in the world has taken place here with the inauguration of the tunnel. The tunnel is the very last word in improvement. It will cut off the time element tremendously when you consider that you can leave Canal and West Street and come down the highway, enter the tunnel here and join Gowanus Parkway in 10 minutes. The differential in time, that same trip going across town in New York and over the bridges took 45 minutes. So you see even there the vastness and the saving of time that is concerned. So many people have asked what will be charged going through the tunnel. Pleasure vehicles, private cars, will be 35 cents, and trucks average all the way through from 50 cents to a dollar and a quarter, depending on the type of truck and the amount of truck there is. The mayor of the city of New York is now going over to where the ribbon is to be cut. The cameramen are having their innings and until everything is ready, of course, why the mayor will have to do exactly as the cameramen tell him. And he always does because it's important to impress history with the picture of these events. The cars are lining up now, the ones that are speeding through. We hope Mr. Maxwell gets through with that wonderful idea he had of being the first one through and offering to take passengers through for the benefit of cerebral palsy victims. So you see, even in a great enterprise of this kind, where the head and the mind is so much indicated, the heart is also taken into consideration too because we all dread the existence of cerebral palsy and we'd like to do everything we can to eliminate it. And now we're just waiting for that moment when the ribbon is cut and, as the mayor said, this great arterial highway really releasing the two elements of the Bell Parkway will be put into service. The cameramen are still ordering, the bulbs are flashing, and the ribbon is still tight. I'm nowhere near it but I can just see a slight bit of it between the movements of the cameramen there. And as soon as the ribbon drops, I'll tell you the exact moment and you can hear the purring of the motorcycles that are going to escort the caravan through the tunnel. The car, the cars are all lining up now. The wall here that surrounds the cut here leading into the tunnel presents a very interesting picture. It's just about breast high and the faces of the people peering over it are a very interesting factor. The skyscrapers around here in this great neighborhood of the Battery are filled to every window watching this event. The ribbon is not cut as yet. Apparently, I can see the scissors now. The mayor is about ready. Wait till we see. He's very patient but he's saying hurry up, boys. Hurry up. Hurry up. I'm up on a table now. There it goes. The mayor of the city of New York has just cut the ribbon. The motorcycle cops are ready to start through. The distinguished guests will enter their cars now and take the ride through. The very interesting factor is that the very best fire protection in the world is carried out by the Ansel chemical extinguishers in the tunnel. And we know in the recent Holland Tunnel incident how marvelously the tunnel withstood that situation from a technical and engineering standpoint. That could not happen very well in this tunnel. The inspection will be rigid, of course, as it has been ever since. And this tunnel itself is a remarkably beautiful piece of construction. Can you hear those motorcycles? Now the cars are lining up and going through the tunnel. And that's about all we can tell you about the Manhattan end. But may we say that the Brooklyn Queens connection there on Furman Street will be open today as well. One of the most remarkable engineering feats in the world are those shelves that run along Furman Street in Brooklyn just above the warehouses there on the riverfront. That $12 million piece of construction from Middaw Street to Juraliman gives you some idea of the picturesqueness that was concerned in this improvement too. Because above the shelves where the automobile traffic is moving, one can see one of the most beautiful views anywhere in the world in the promenade above the Furman Street driveway. Well, except now for the people loading the cars and getting ready. the cops there are having an argument with the cameramen about something. We'll just wait a second now to hear the cards going through. Cardinal Spellman is walking over now. I don't think he's going through the tunnel. He's receiving quite a greeting from everybody standing along the curb. He's walking along simply like any private citizen. Well, ladies and gentlemen, and now the traffic flows in the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel and the two great arterial highways, the West Side Highway, the Belk Parkway, and the facility of automobile traffic has another astounding improvement and link in the inauguration of this tunnel. That is about all now from the battery here. We thank you for your kind attention and return you to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system. other people who worry about what can happen here. Thank you. Living's sister has lost utilized. She can take some. Her Queen said would be able to help her untie to