Christmas in New York Christ is born today Christ is born today Your city station, WNYC, presents in cooperation with the Voice of America's a special program entitled Christmas in New York. High above the black mass of New York City, above streets pierced by the twin shafts of automobiles speeding to and from the city, above the sleek oily surface of the Hudson River, where loaded boats churn up to the piers, discharge their loads and set out again. High above the sound and movement of Manhattan, the great carillon of Riverside Church, reminds the city of the Christmas season. Now here is your narrator, Sydney Berry. For days now, the city has hunted out its needy, provided for its children, its wounded veterans in hospitals, its homeless. For days, the city's great organizations have collected and shipped out supplies for people all over the world. New York families have gathered together in reunion. The stores have hummed with the bustle of shoppers. The streets have sounded with the laughter and gaiety of children on holiday. And a large part of the festival season, in this huge, sprawling city, can be glimpsed on quiet side streets, on boulevards, in residential suburbs, in the religious buildings of New York, where quiet moments pass as the people listen to messages from their ministers and priests, pray before green-decked altars lit by soft candlelight, join the voices of choirs singing music familiar to all Americans. In the moments following, the voice of America takes you into some of these churches, bringing you the services by which New Yorkers mark their Christmas season. We go first to the tip of Manhattan Island, downtown to the old New York that once was Dutch. The Bowery, where Peter Stuyvesant in 1600 built his chapel. On the same site, the church built in 1795 stands today as a landmark of the old city. Washington Irving's sweetheart had worshipped in its shadowed interior. And here, the man who wrote the beloved American Christmas poem, The Night Before Christmas, Clement Clark Moore, served as vestureman. Let us turn to St. Mark's of the Bowery now, to hear some of their Christmas music. St. Mark the Bowery, where Peter Stuyvesant in Florida King of of the Kansas City, aرك of of the Roosevelt Bon meio And that seeketh along there, and no fear is near. The sun is lying there in the manger on the hay, on the hay. He is your Savior, Jesus your Savior, born today. Born today. There is Mother kneeling beside him, Mary, mild, Mary, mild. When the manger goes to the oxen, see her child, see her child. The End Ding-dong bell, ding-dong bell, ding-dong bell, ding-dong bell. The sky is in, we're singing. Gloria, Gloria, Hosanna in excelsis. Gloria, Gloria, Hosanna in excelsis. From the old church in downtown Manhattan, St. Mark's of the Bowery, you have heard a portion of the special Christmas carol service, just as New York worshippers listen to it. Moving uptown along busy streets, we come into Greenwich Village, the simple arch of Washington Square, and then along 5th Avenue to 12th Street, where the First Presbyterian Church is holding service for parishioners, for visitors from the downtown hotels, for weary people homeward bound who have seen the lights and stopped briefly to join the service Dr. Moldenhauer is conducting. Above all, let the blaze of our confidence be fanned into wider spreading fire and light as this Christmas Day comes to our churches and our homes. Let our prayers be fervently recited for all who dwell in darkness. Whether the old, ignorant darkness in which the name had never been heard, or that more dreadful darkness of our time, thrown out and over nations and parts of nations by those who, unhappy men that they are, bear in their bosoms hostility to the very thought that God is and that he has sent his Son to redeem mankind. The morning light is breaking. The darkness disappears. Thus has the word gone forth. Let that word be heard by our ears and spoken by our lips. Let that word, like the word of men and angels in the fields of Bethlehem, fall again upon an air filled with the clash of invisible wings.ased above you. Breках haben, hein, oder in the pruebe He shepherds strength the grip of pride, but hear the angels for him. This time how we live in the sea, O God, be there, and joy for thee, the power of faith and great fear, for thee, the power of faith and great fear. I hear all the dreams that the angels grow, the angels are sweet. I hear all the dreams that the angels grow, the power of fire, and I'll have a fire, I hear all the dreams that the angels grow, the angels grow, and the joy for thee, the power of faith and great fear. Chishis and Marie, every day the child, the child we can sing, mother, be there, and we run, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, and I'll have a fire, in the sea, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, by the fire, The End The End The End Amen From Greenwich Village, the old bohemian center of New York City, Dr. Moldenauer, the pastor, has spoken to you and to the people gathered in the First Presbyterian Church. Throughout the city, the holy season is marked by religious institutions, and our next visit is to one of the oldest of these. We move away from the hurry and noise of the city itself, along the boulevards which have grown familiar to our United Nations visitors in recent weeks. For our destination is the old Quaker meeting house in Flushing, Long Island, and there Ben Wilbur brings you the story of this institution. The Religious Society of Friends has a history almost as old as the country itself. Their influence has been felt in the affairs of the nation through almost 300 years of growth and development, strife and turmoil. Through it all, the Quakers have been, on many occasions, the still small voice crying in the wilderness. For they have found peace when there was no peace. They have enthroned the glories of the inner life, and in their contentment have found the blessings of the Christmas story in their day-to-day living. The Friends Church is in the spiritual brotherhood they all share. They come together in their meeting houses to worship in their own tradition of simplicity. In 1694, this meeting house was erected in Flushing, on Long Island, by the Religious Society of Friends. Just 22 years later, it was necessary to enlarge the original building, the building that has stood since that time as a monument to the faith, the simplicity, and the generosity of those who have gone before. This meeting house stands in the rush of the business district of the Flushing of today. The modern metropolis of New York has completely surrounded it with busy highways and modern buildings. It stands behind a stone wall with its back to the street, and a little higher than the level of the street. Its lines are simple, not at all like a place of worship. Its gray shingled walls are covered with graceful ivy. A sign on the street, erected by the state government, recalls the age of the building, and the fact that it has been used for worship for more than 250 years. Another sign announces that all are welcome to the meetings for worship held here. One of the Flushing friends sends greetings to the world. From this ancient meeting house in Flushing, built in 1694, as a place of worship by members of the Religious Society of Friends called Quakers, We send to all people everywhere a message of love. The meeting house is very simply and solidly built, with great hand-hewn beams of oak and with heavy wrought ironware. There is no steeple, no stained glass, no ornament. Our religious services are conducted with great simplicity. Friends have always placed a special emphasis on the belief that every human being is given a measure of the Spirit of God. This divine spark we call the inner light, or the Christ within. As we listen to this inward guide, we experience communion with God without the aid of ritual or clergy. Therefore, when we come together for worship, we sit down in silence, each seeking to yield his will to the divine will. Sometimes, as we do this, a heavenly peace enfolds us. The Holy Spirit speaks to our spirits, reproves us, comforts us, encourages us, shows us new tasks. The silence becomes powerful, beautiful, wonderful. We seem to feel much closer in spirit to each other. At times, some person feels it to be his or her duty to share with the rest a train of thought which seems meant for the whole group or to express the aspiration of the group in prayer. Sometimes, there is no vocal ministry. The religious society of friends has never formulated a creed. Our religion is a religion of life, and our pattern, the life and teachings of Jesus. We believe that when he said, love one another as I have loved you, he included everyone. We hold, therefore, that all war is wrong, and that it should be the goal of every follower of Christ to try to understand and to feel goodwill toward all races, religions, and nations. On December 22nd, our Sunday school classes brought gifts to be sent to less fortunate children. listened to Luke's story of the Babe of Bethlehem and sang the familiar Christmas hymns. Our morning hour of worship was observed that day in our usual simple manner, inasmuch as we desire to feel in our hearts every day of the year thankfulness and joy for the gift of Jesus to the world. The influence of the Quakers has been felt as far as these words can travel. For the American Friends Service Committee reaches out a hand to all parts of a war-torn world with material aid and a spiritual ministry of hope and friendship. From simple meeting houses such as this one in New York, the Quakers send the word of peace. Returning to New York from the Quaker Meeting House in Flushing, the reflection of the city lights are thrown back from the sky and the tall buildings send their reflections across the waterfront as we cross the river. We are going downtown again, into that section which every newcomer to the city sees first as his ship comes into the harbor, the jagged peaks of the business district, crowded close on the very tip of Manhattan Island. Our destination is Trinity Church, where Arthur Lizelle describes the scene. Greetings to the world from Trinity Church in downtown Manhattan. It seems almost paradoxical that here, among the tall canyons of buildings that make up the heart of the financial district of the greatest city in the world, one would find the peace and calm of a church. Yet here in Trinity, a comparatively small building that seems almost swallowed up by the towering skyscrapers which surround it, we see businessmen and women taking time from the mad hustle of their daily chores to find solace in a few moments of quiet devotion. Trinity Church. It's an old church and it's small. It was the first Protestant Episcopal church established in New York City by a grant of Queen Anne in 1705. The building was completed in 1846 and while it is small, its construction in free English Gothic style makes it very impressive. Old photographs show the spire which rises 280 feet above the street towering over early buildings. But today, the spire is dwarfed by the sharp outlines of Wall Street which stretches before it. Another strange feeling one gets as he approaches the church is the view of the little old cemetery which surrounds the building. Here in the heart of busy New York City, are little old weathered slabs on which are carved such names as Alexander Hamilton, aide and confidant of George Washington and first secretary of the treasury. Robert Fulton, the inventor of the steamboat. Captain James Lawrence who became famous in the war of 1812 for his command don't give up the ship. And William Bradford, the founder of New York City's first newspaper. And many others famous in the annals of American history. Facing the altar from inside the large bronze doors, one can see the double rows of carved columns which support the nave vaulting and the seven white marble panels which depict scenes from the life of Christ, particularly associated with the Last Supper. The stone floors, the pews, the pillars, the walls, and even the glass filling most of the windows are uniformly of an even, mellow tone of soft yellow brown. They have the worn but unsoiled tint of a well-kept vellum manuscript. In striking contrast is the brilliant stained glass window of burning blue and ruby. But blending harmoniously with these two effects is the warm ivory of the marble in the altar. All around this calm spot, one is conscious of the busyness of life in New York Harbor, almost at the tip of Manhattan Island. Boat whistles mingle with automobile horns in an almost endless symphony. But as one approaches the church, one begins to sense the feeling of warmth which so many office workers find when they sun themselves on the front steps on pleasant days or when they come in to participate in the daily services. And so, on this Christmas Eve, though they are anxious to get to their homes, hundreds of businessmen and women have stopped in to listen to the carol services which are held here every day during the week before Christmas. From the canyons of Wall Street, we turn now to the teeming heart of this great city and to the cathedral which is host to visitors from all over America, all over the world. St. Patrick's, where pigeons hover over the broad steps leading into the church and where shoppers of all faith stop in for peaceful worship. There, Joseph Bolton is waiting to tell us the story of the building and to bring us a portion of the service. I am standing in the organ loft overlooking the beautiful white marble altar of St. Patrick's Cathedral on Fifth Avenue in New York City. This magnificent edifice is the first major cathedral to be built in America and is one of the outstanding examples of Gothic architecture in this country. Built in Gothic revival style, the design was based upon that of the Cathedral of Cologne. St. Patrick's Cathedral, with its dependencies, occupies an entire city block and on the grounds is the home of his eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman. In this holiday season, worshippers from this teeming metropolis and from all over the country come into this awe-inspiring house of God to meditate in this true atmosphere of Christmas. Rockefeller Center is a next-door neighbor of St. Patrick's Cathedral and as the worshippers leave after prayer, they can see the towering 60-foot Norwegian pine Christmas tree with its lighted blue decorations. Peace on earth to men of good will and peace is found by those meditating in prayer in front of this glorious altar.業務ordial翻 이게 never there I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I said. I told them really, but it may be that I can't have hope. Well, sure. No matter how many ways, now? The night of Easter tree Yblhing on anidelity Yblhing around this day The Abyssinian Baptist Church is one of the oldest churches in the United States. It was organized in 1808. Today it has a membership of 16,000 people. It was made famous by the Reverend Dr. Adam Clayton Powell Sr., who became its pastor 38 years ago. Today it is pastored by his illustrious son, Dr. Adam Clayton Powell Jr., who also represents one of the congressional districts in New York. On this Christmas Eve we are engaged in a church program for religious, social, economic, and political freedom for all peoples, irrespective of race, creed, or color. The church's theme for this year is that I might know him. Sensing the need for a deepening of the spiritual roots of our Christian heritage, its ministry pleads this year for an emergent revival, a revival for better human relationships, more economic freedom and justice, better race relations, and a thorough release from selfishness. At Abyssinian we have learned to work together. We are now in the midst of a legislative conference called in the interests of municipal, state, and federal problems confronting the people. It is our hope that religion will never become a selfish enterprise, being isolated from the common interests of the civic, social, and economic welfare of the community. It is in that spirit that we usher in the Christmas of 1946. Come on, Satan, and Facebook, our Christian, let every part prepare him room, And help the nature sing And help the death of nature sing Try to help the stadium ring The heaviness of the sky The fields and blood, the fields and flames Repeat the sounding dawn Repeat the sounding dawn Be who the world is true and great And makes the nature prove The glory of His righteousness And wonders of His love And wonders of His love This then is a portion of the Christmas service as it is heard in the First Abyssinian Church. Across the length and breadth of the city tonight, we have visited old buildings and new ones. We have heard the peoples of many denominations in the services of the Christmas season. Our final visit tonight brings the voice of a beloved pastor, the 83-year-old Bishop of New York, Bishop William Manning, who will be introduced by the Reverend Cannon. The next voice you will hear is the voice of the Reverend Cannon Thomas A. Sparks, speaking from the Church of St. John the Divine in Uptown New York, along the upper reaches of Central Park. The great cathedral of St. John the Divine in Uptown New York City is named for the author of the last book in the Bible, the Revelation of St. John the Divine. The Grinning, begun more than fifty years ago and built entirely of stone, it is now about two-thirds finished, and that without a cent of debt upon it. When completed, it will be the largest Gothic cathedral in the whole world. An engineer's estimate that barring an earthquake, it ought to last for 5,000 years, and so will be standing when every other present-day structure in New York shall have disappeared. Here, large congregations of all sorts of conditions assemble, such as come on Christmas Eve when about 7,000 persons are present to celebrate the coming of Christ as a little child and to proclaim again the message of glory to God in the highest and on earth peace to men of goodwill. During the last calendar year, there were over 1,700 services in this church. In addition to worshippers, unnumbered tourists visit it. The Christmas carols you'll be hearing are sung by the regular cathedral choir of 65 men and boys, and they all send you a Merry Christmas, and trust that you'll enjoy hearing these carols as much as they enjoy singing them. The cathedral echoes to this and reaches out to you to include you in this music, sung in praise of God, and to the uplift of all hearts everywhere at this Christmas time. The church in the verse 2 by Zionary is a very brief Like3 said, Chic now, ladies and gentlemen, they both 2012, The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The Right Reverend William T. Manning, Bishop of New York, under whose leadership the greater part of this building has been erected, will now speak to you. I feel it a great privilege to speak to you all over the world who are listening to this broadcast and to speak of the divine message which Christmas brings to us. Think what human life would be if all of us would hear and heed the Christmas message. At Christmas, the door of heaven stands open to us. It was God himself who for us men and for our salvation came down from heaven and became man. Jesus, who was born in Bethlehem, is our friend, our savior, our Lord, and our God. This is the glory and wonder of Christmas. Christmas draws us nearer to Christ and so nearer to each other and to all our fellow men of whatever race or kind or color. Christmas stirs all our hearts with desire to help others, especially those who have suffered so terribly and are still suffering through the war. Christmas tells us that God reigns Christ has power to help all of us and to bring justice, and that in spite of the world-wide anxiety and fear, Christ has power to help all of us and to bring justice, peace, and brotherhood to all mankind. May his grace and strength and blessing be with all of you this Christmas. Welcome, ye the very King Welcome, morn, one glad morning Welcome, for home we shall sing Welcome, you Welcome, you Welcome, welcome, you Welcome, me Welcome, people Lord, they're near Welcome, well, face holy cheer Welcome, you Welcome, you Welcome, welcome, you Welcome, me, Daniel Mann Welcome, me, each I love this Welcome, all, and make good cheer Welcome, all, another year Welcome, me, you Welcome, me, you Welcome, you Welcome, welcome, welcome you. During the past 45 minutes, you have heard Christmas in New York, a special feature presented by your city station, WNYC, in cooperation with the Voice of America. This program has brought you a cross-section of holiday services in some of the churches of America's largest city. With cooperation of these institutions themselves, St. Mark's in the Bowery, the First Presbyterian Church, Trinity Church, the Old Quaker Meeting House, St. Patrick's Cathedral, the First Abyssinian Baptist Church, and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. The program was directed by Harold Janus. Announcers on the program have been Joseph Bolton, Arthur Lozell, Ben Wilber, and Sidney Berry, was your narrator. And here's wishing you the blessings of the season, bringing to a close this special feature, Christmas in New York. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. interesting music of the season of nature. ist
