This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from Convention Hall in Chicago. This giant Midwestern city today is in the middle of one of the greatest heatwaves in its... The temperature soared up above 90 degrees today, making this equal to the hottest July on record. But not only the mercury is going up. The 31st Democratic National Convention today is rapidly nearing its climax. The race for the presidency and the civil rights disputes between North and South are reaching their final stages. In the presidential picture, members of almost every state delegation were saying this afternoon that it looks very much like Governor Adley Stevenson of Illinois. The unwilling candidate whose stock has been booming since he addressed the convention briefly yesterday. As one state delegation leader put it, the plain fact is that we want to win in the... There's been some defeatist talk since General Eisenhower's nomination. But, said this state leader, I believe that most of the delegates here realize that Governor Stevenson gives us a very good chance of winning. The withdrawal of Vice President Barclay shortly before midnight yesterday has apparently put a lot of delegates on the Stevenson bandwagon. It increased the governor's chances greatly because most of the delegates who have been pledged to Mr. Barclay come from states and have been leaning to Mr. Stevenson. There were persistent reports around the hall there today, particularly from the governor's more enthusiastic backers, and he might even win on the first ballot. The governor is reported to have the active support of delegates from 19 states with delegates in five other states ready to jump on any bandwagon. Most political observers, though, were a little more conservative. James A. Farley, the New Yorker who managed Franklin Roosevelt's early campaigns, was interviewed by WNYC. Mr. Farley predicted Governor Stevenson's nomination on the second or third ballot. In line with Mr. Farley's prediction, there was a widely held belief around here today that Mr. Stevenson would get 100 to 175 votes on the first ballot, but that then the delegation's pledge to favor its sons would go over to the Stevenson bandwagon. These circles expect that Mr. Stevenson will get 250,300 on the second ballot and probably enough for nomination on the third. As far as President Truman is concerned, there have been persistent rumors that he has just indicated a preference for Mr. Stevenson. But many delegates who are still uncertain about the President's attitude are convinced that Mr. Truman will back Mr. Stevenson, if for no other reason, because they feel that the Illinois governor can win, and Mr. Truman logically would support him. If the activities of the campaign workers count for anything, it may be that the nomination is already in the bag. Walking through the Conrad Hilton Hotel this afternoon, it was obvious that the most energetic campaign workers were Governor Stevenson. There was a noticeable low today in the campaign hijinks in the Hilton lobby. I saw no parades or brass bands and only a few teenagers getting out handled for Governor Stevenson and a few other candidates. All the candidates, as the campaign is its climax, have been very busy courting various delegations. I ran into Senator Ketalver on an elevator at the Blackstone Hotel, and the senator who was on his way to call on a fence looked harried and hot, as who doesn't in this Chicago weather. The Tennessee senator wasn't showing any signs of pessimism. Things are looking brighter all the time, Senator Ketalver said. Averill Harriman, the New York State's favorite Sun candidate, wasn't conceding anything either. He told a close friend today, I won't withdraw from the race until someone else has 616 votes. That, of course, is the bare majority needed to win nominations. Mr. Harriman also said that he believed that the party's chances of success in November were poor unless it took an uncompromising stand on the civil rights question. Mr. Harriman also feels that Mr. Senator Ketalver nor Governor Stevenson are two New Dealers, that he, Averill Harriman, is the only man running on a New Deal Fair Deal platform. Mr. Harriman has been seeing many delegates on floor A of the Blackstone Hotel. As far as the New York State delegation is concerned, indications still are that about 83 votes should go to Mr. Harriman on the first ballot. But there are also a growing indication that the delegates are very impressed by Stevenson. The choice of a vice presidential candidate is already far beyond the talking stage. Among the names being tossed around among the politicians are Senator William Fulbright of Arkansas, Senator John Sparkman of Alabama, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, who, of course, has been campaigning for the number one place on the ticket, and Secretary of the Interior, Oscar Chapman. This, of course, is all still just talk. The fact is, and there's hardly a delegate who wouldn't agree, the choice of a vice presidential candidate will rest with the man who's picked to run for president. Many delegates I've talked to feel that the presidential candidate has the absolute right to decide who will share the ticket with him. With all this talk about the vice presidency, it's interesting to note that Mr. Harriman definitely won't consider second place on the ticket. At least that's what he told people who called on him today. The talk of running a man from the south, of course, stems from the tremendous antagonism that has grown up on the convention floor between the civil rights fighters from the north and the states' riders from the south. The fuse was lit early this morning at a bitter session when the northernists threw a resolution. That resolution instructed state chairman to certify that their delegates would use every honorable means to ensure that the nominees chosen here will be presented at the head of their state democratic ticket general election. Representative Franklin Delano Rosso, Jr. of New York City, one of the leaders of the northerners, got a big ovation. Essentially, this battle between the north and the south is won over civil rights legislation. The southerners firmly believe that it's up to each state to settle the civil rights question, and such federal measures as FBPC are wrong. The Dixie Group has indicated that it will oppose any candidate who goes down the line for President Truman's proposals on civil rights. And as this fight is going here in Chicago, there have been threats that as many as seven anti-Chulman delegations might stalk out. Regardless, though, of what happens, the middle-of-the-road people here are very f***ed. J. Carol Cohn, a vice president of a large airline and one of the biggest financial backers of President Truman's 1948 campaign, is one of this unhappy middle-of-the-road group. Mr. Cohn, who originally comes from Arkansas, said, I hate to see all this bitterness. It's no good for the party. There are a lot of good men on both sides, and it seems to me that there are several good combinations possible for the ticket. There's no earthly reason why the north and south can't get together for their own good. Late this afternoon, Senator Blair Moody of Michigan, one of the leaders of the northern faction, did show a definite impression of wanting to settle this issue peacefully, if it is at all possible. And that's the picture in this broiling convention city this evening. This is Gabriel Presman speaking to you from Chicago and returning you to WNYC in New York. This is Gabriel Presman speaking to you from Convention Hall in Chicago. To a newcomer in Chicago, this 31st Democratic National Convention presents a confusing picture on the surface. There are other delegates scattered all over Chicago at a dozen hotels. The parades and rallies and shouts of the demonstrators for the candidates. In a five-minute period, standing in the hot lobby of the Conrad Hilton Hotel, your ears can be deafened by a wildcat teenage band singing the plaudits of Averill Harriman to the tune of that old popular melody about Harrigan. Your eyes can be strange from watching the trapeze artist that's swinging for Oscar Ewing or the big T-favor blimp tossing high in the wind over Michigan Avenue. There's a lot of noise, a lot of pushing and shoving, both in the hotels and on the convention floor. I guess I can't do it. That was fine. You won't hear it. I have to plug it in. You won't hear anything. There would be at least half a dozen or more candidates in the running for the presidential nomination with that nomination way up in the air. But, as I say, that's only the surface. Underneath the season, politicians will tell you, things may certainly turn out to be a good deal simpler. The fact is that members of all the state delegations say quite frankly that their major concern is with President Truman's choice. The delegates I talk to believe that since the Democratic Party must run on the record of the Truman administration, the president logically deserves the right to name his successor. Even some of the more enthusiastic supporters of various candidates who have campaigned hard will grant you that the final choice can and should still be made by the White House that the convention will heed the president. In the meantime, most observers agree that as far as delegate ceiling tonight is concerned, three men rank the highest. Vice President Albin Barkley, Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois, and Senator Estes Kifalber, a crime investigator from Tennessee. Vice President Barkley suffered a severe blow yesterday when high CIO and AFL leaders rejected him because of his age. Today, the vice president conferred with labor leaders to try to convince them that at 74, he was still not too old to run. Governor Stevenson today continued to match the enthusiasm of his supporters with a complete lack of enthusiasm on his own part. Last night, Governor Stevenson, originally President Truman's choice, spoke behind closed doors to the Illinois delegation. He reportedly told them that he was not fit temperamentally, mentally, or physically for the presidency. However, in nothing the governor has said so far, is there any indication that he would refuse to run if nominated? He hasn't seen fit to phrase his nose as strongly as General Sherman did many years ago. Today, Governor Stevenson got a warm ovation when he mounted the rostrum to address the opening session of the convention. Delegates standing from Illinois, Indiana, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Rhode Island and other states waved in the air. The governor made a strong defense of the Roosevelt-Truman record and warned that in his words, the constructive spirit of the great democratic decade must not die here on its 20th anniversary in destructive indignity and disorder. The third member of the big three candidates is Senator Kefauver of Tennessee. The senator has been rushing around from hotel to hotel, seeing delegates all day. He visited those from Ohio, Maine, Vermont, New Hampshire, and North Carolina, among others. Later, he was to attend a party for the New York delegation. Senator Kefauver says that from now on, he'll be waving most of his fight right from the convention floor. The man who probably knows President Truman's choice wasn't talking today. He's Thomas Gavin of Kansas City, the president's alternate on the Missouri delegation. And Mr. Gavin says his choice won't be disclosed until he votes on the first ballot. There have been repeated rumors today that the word has been passed from the White House. But if so, none of the candidates seems to know about it yet. As far as the New York State delegation is concerned, Averill Harriman is still a top choice. James A. Farley has certainly influenced the delegates by coming out for Mr. Barkley. But an informal poll today showed that the New York delegation probably will pass from 80 to 85 votes for Mr. Harriman, the favorite son of the state, on the first ballot. Senator Herbert Lehman's fighting stand on the civil rights issue and the dispute over contested delegates could help cause a split between southern and northern forces. However, the Democratic National Committee has delayed a showdown on these questions and hopes thereby to smooth level feelings and avoid a grim battle between northern and southern forces. That then is the general picture in Chicago this evening. And the convention awaits the keynote address by Governor Paul Deaver of Massachusetts. Barkley, Stevenson, Keefauver seem to be running ahead. But President Truman's choice still should carry the greatest weight here in Convention Hall. This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from Chicago and returning you to WNYC in New York. This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from Chicago. Tonight's the night. This is the night that the delegates to the 31st Democratic National Convention have been waiting for. The order of business calls for the nomination of the Democratic candidate for President of the United States. All afternoon the role of states was called and the names of various candidates placed in nomination. The noisy demonstrations over. Later this evening the delegates will get down to the serious business. Unless something very unusual happens to upset the apple cart the political dopest is here expect victory for Governor Adelaide Stevenson of Illinois on an early ballot. President Truman has sent word that Mr. Stevenson is acceptable. The New York State delegation is still expected to give almost all its 94 votes on the first ballot to favorite son April Harriman. There are three and a half New York State votes though that are expected to go to Governor Stevenson. Mr. Harriman's supporters have not given up. I spoke on the convention floor to Jerry Finkelstein former New York City planning commissioner who managed Mayor O'Dwyer's last campaign. The boom for Stevenson is somewhat synthetic Mr. Finkelstein said. It was created largely by the press, radio, and television. I think Governor Stevenson's strength is exaggerated. Mr. Finkelstein said Governor Stevenson was strong but he still thought that Mr. Harriman or Senator Esther's chief father could take the nomination. Members of the New York delegation who are opposed to Governor Stevenson point out that the governor has said he's an unwilling candidate. In fact, that he's temperamentally and mentally unfit for the job of being president. Imagine if the Republicans start putting quotes like that down on doughboards said one New York state delegate. But against sentiments like these you can weigh the feelings of a man like James A. Farley who managed Franklin D. Roosevelt's early campaigns. Mr. Farley who's voting with a minority of three and a half for Stevenson conceded that New York would give Mr. Harriman most of its first ballot votes. But just wait until the tide starts to roll Mr. Farley said. Then almost all the votes will be slinging to Stevenson. Stevenson is a winner Mr. Farley added. That's why I'm for him and that's why he's going to get the nomination. The other candidates who have fought so hard and so long are not conceding anything at least publicly. A few hours ago I was president at a press conference when Senator Keith told reporters I'm in this race for president of the finish. My strength is still growing and I feel quite confident that I will be nominated. Senator Keith was asked about yesterday's demonstration when he appeared unexpectedly on the convention floor. The anti-Keefauver people were charged that the demonstration was planned to drum up votes for the senator. But Senator Keith said with a grin, if I knew that demonstration was coming I would have had my wife Nancy with me because she certainly would have added to it. No matter what happens tonight the dramatic high point of this convention was probably reached last night with the appearance of Vice President Albin Barkley. Mr. Barkley who had been bitterly disappointed when labor leaders turned down his bid for the presidency really stole the show. For more than an hour all told convention hall was turned into bedlam and like the demonstration for Eleanor Roosevelt this one was genuine. The hall was in such an uproar that from the average seat it was impossible to follow anything that was going on. The best bet was to leave convention hall and get to a television set if you were able to fight your way down the jammed aisles. And Mr. Barkley galvanized this convention as nothing before has. North, south, east, west. There were no sectional differences just a tremendous unified outpouring of admiration and affection for the party's grand old man while the Vice President's young wife smiled proudly. Democratic leaders are hoping to preserve some of that unity evident last night with the nomination of the candidate. The peacemakers have been working overtime to keep southern states from bolting the convention. And the efforts of the harmony seekers brought the adoption of the platform earlier this morning by a voice vote. Even though the civil rights plank was stronger than the one adopted four years ago, there was no fight on the floor. Georgia, Mississippi, and Texas asked to be recorded as voting no, but they didn't walk out. The refusal of South Carolina, Virginia, and Louisiana to sign the loyalty pledge still stood in the way of unity, but it's not known yet whether this conflict is strong enough to force these states to vote tonight. Incidentally, Senator Herbert Lehman, who worked so hard for the civil rights plank, particularly the anti-filibuster provision, was very satisfied with the platform. I'm thrilled, Senator Lehman said. The next order of business will be selection of a vice presidential candidate, and those considered having the best chance are Senators John Sparkman of Alabama, Richard Russell of Georgia, and despite his denial that he would accept the job, Senator Kefauver of Tennessee. It's a serious moment here in Chicago, but even at this hour, there's a lighter side. On the streets, in the hotel lobbies, and even on the convention floor today, they're wearing a new kind of campaign button. The button reads, I go Pogo, and boosts the candidacy of the little possum who has become one of America's favorite comic strip characters. Walt Kelly, the cartoonist who created Pogo, addressed a rally of frenzy Pogo fans on the University of Chicago campus last night. Mr. Kelly summed up Pogo's platform very simply, animals is animals, but people still make the best type of human beings. This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from Chicago and returning you to WNYC in New York. Here at the International Amphitheater in Chicago, I am looking at a convention that is significantly altered in its tone and approached by the tremendous ad-lib speech made by Vice President Hartley last night. He received the most tremendous ovation of any speaker thus far in the convention. His demonstration of his ability and conviction and vigor won him an expression of acclaim and love by the convention that is unparalleled by any other demonstration thus far. This speech by Barkley with its consequent reaction by the convention has had important secondary consequences. It has strengthened the Stop Stevenson effort by the other candidates and today the whole convention has more and more the appearance of a real horse race, a close horse race. The number of candidates being nominated is going to go on for some time. There's a great deal of factionalism, a great deal of tension, but as I look at this convention, I am reminded of the story that Carl Sandburg told me once, one of the best Lincoln stories that I know which really sums up this entire convention. election. In 1860, Lincoln, as head of the Republican Party, was running against the divided and split Democratic Party. He was worried by his prospects for election. One of his friends, a Republican, came to Lincoln and said, Mr. Lincoln, the Democrats are split, they're divided, there's factionalism, they are rent by internal feuds, your prospects are good, there is no doubt at all about your victory. And Mr. Lincoln, in a very famous reply, said, the difficulty, my good sir, is that fights in the Democratic Party are like cat fights. The more fights, the more cats. This is a characterization of strife within the Democratic Party which should be kept in mind as one looks at the various tensions and various conflicts between the rival blocs here in the convention. Overall, I would say that most impartial observers still feel that Stevenson has a substantial leap in the effort in the race for the nomination as president. But one should not underestimate or overlook the obvious fact that this convention is really out of control of the old party leadership. and because it is out of control, anything can happen here at Chicago at this convention tonight. I'm speaking to you by telephone from the room of Senator Herbert H. Lehman at the Blackstone Hotel here in Chicago. Senator, how do you feel about the candidacy of Averill Harriman for the presidency? Well, as you know, I am very strongly behind the candidacy of Averill Harriman. Of the presidency, I think he's a man who is thoroughly well equipped to be president of the United States, both by character and experience and knowledge and training. And I think that when he is elected, he's going to make a great president. And how do you feel about the rest of the delegation? Do you think the rest of the New York delegation will go along with that candidacy? First ballot? Yes, I do. I feel quite confident that the great majority of the United States in New York will go along with Averill Harriman's candidacy. The big news, among the biggest news items out here at Chicago, has been the controversy over the civil rights plank in the Democratic Party platform. Senator, you have been reported as saying that it's the platform committee doesn't adopt the tough civil rights plank guaranteeing a fair employment practices commission. You'd fight for it on the convention floor. Is that the way you feel with the convention opening today? Well, I think it's fair to say that I've taken the leadership to fight for a strong plank on civil rights in the platform of the Democratic Party. I'm a member of the platform thrashing committee. I want a plank in the platform which would play Democratic Party to set up a FUTC with enforcement power, to pass an anti-linking bill, to outlaw the poll tax, to take steps towards the elimination and segregation in the armed services of the United States, to punish any interference or intimidation of those wishing to vote in any primary or general election, and finally to strengthen statutes to prevent discrimination in interstate travel on railroad buses and so forth. Now, that is the plank that I would like to see written in to the platform and one on which I have been fighting ever since I came to Chicago a week ago. So continue to fight until the platform reaches the floor of the convention. convention. But in order to implement these indefinite aspirations and intentions which we want to have written into the platform, it would be necessary to take steps to amend the very vicious rule 22 in the Senate, which permits filibustering, endless filibustering, filibustering that can go on for days and weeks and months if necessary, and prevent action on the bills. We've got bills in the Senate now which would accomplish the various things that I have described yet a minute ago. But we can't bring them up. We can't stop the Dixocrats from filibustering. Now, in order to accomplish anything, it will be necessary to have the Democratic Party pledge itself against the vicious and indefensible device of killing legislation by filibustering. If we don't do that, there will not be any really effective action taken. Basically, what you want, as far as the Senate rules is concerned, is a change in the rule so that filibustering can be prevented by a majority vote. Is that correct, sir? Now, we want filibustering now can be carried on by a handful of senators, by eight, nine, ten senators. We want to have the Senate empowered to stop endless filibustering by a majority vote after an adequate discussion of the subject. We don't want gag rule. We don't want to stop anybody from expecting his opinion, whether he'd be a member of the minority or the majority. And the bill that we have in now, which I proposed a year ago, and again this, a month ago, or two months ago, would permit debate to go on for 15 days. But at the end of 15 days, a majority of the Senate could stop further debate and bring the bill up to a vote. What we want is to bring this bill and other important legislation to a vote. That's what the Senate is there for, to vote and to act. And at the present time, a handful of willful men can stop action by the Senate merely by filibustering. Yes, sir. Well, there's just one other question, sir. And that is, several leaders of the Democratic Party have spoken out in favor of unity. They say that they should be compromised on the civil rights plank to bring these various factions of the party, the North and the South, together. Do you believe in unity at the price of any one of those principles? I believe in unity, but not at all, at the price of unity on principles. What we're fighting for here is a great principle, a principle that not only affects the immediate situation, but affects action and policies in the United States Senate and in the United States. For a long range, it covers every kind of legislation. Now, I hope there be unity. I'm very hopeful that we have, our cause is so just that the platform committee will accept the proposals which I have made. But if they do not accept it, undoubtedly this question will come to the floor of the Senate. Uh, floor of the convention, rather. Thank you very much, Senator Lehman. That was Senator Lehman speaking by telephone from his room at the Hotel Blackstone in Chicago to WNYC in New York. This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from the Conrad Hilton Hotel in Chicago. Just a few minutes ago, the New York State delegation to the 31st Democratic National Convention held the caucus here. The results of that closed meeting of delegates was read to reporters by Senator Herbert Lehman. Senator Lehman reported that the New York delegates will vote when the balloting for president begins tomorrow as follows. Favorites on Averill Harriman, 83 and a half votes. For Governor Adelaide Stevenson of Illinois, three and a half votes. Senator Estes to favor, one vote, and three votes untruthed, and three votes absent. Of those three absent votes, they all are expected to go to Averill Harriman, according to Senator Lehman, making a total for Harriman of 86 and a half votes. Here beside me is Councilman Earl Brown of Manhattan, who was present at the meeting as an alternate delegate and who was an assistant editor of Life magazine. Mr. Brown, was there any friction at today's meeting? No, there was none. As a matter of fact, the meeting went off more smoothly and quickly than I had anticipated. What was the meeting about Mr. Harriman? The feeling at the meeting was that Mr. Harriman is a good candidate, and no doubt he will get a great majority of the vote of the New York... Tell me, as an old hand at covering conventions, Mr. Brown, what has impressed you most about this 31st Democratic National Convention? I have been impressed by the part that Labor is playing in this convention. Present at this convention are more than 100 delegates from Labor unions. They are quite active among their delegations, working for a liberal and progressive platform, and for candidates who would most merely carry out a liberal and progressive platform. Among the top ladies here are red-headed Walter Rutner, president of the Auto Workers Union, CIO, and George Harrison, an AFL leader who is also a delegate from the state of Ohio. ...that they're playing a decisive part in this convention. How precisely? In the choice of the president and the platform? Well, I wouldn't say that they are exactly playing a decisive part at this convention. They are playing a very important part. That was indicated the day before yesterday when Vice President Barclay invited a number of Labor leaders to breakfast with him. It was reported that at this breakfast, he asked for their support. And it was then that he was told that Labor would not support him. this has been by the press probably too much because it was, as I have said, the Vice President who asked the Labor leaders for their support, and therefore he gave them an opportunity to say no. Hadn't asked them in all probability, they would not, of course, at that time have said no. I say, well, Mr. Brown, who do you think at this point is going to win the nomination for president of the Democratic Party? Well, it seems as if Governor Adelaide Stevenson of the state of Illinois is in the lead. At least he is the most talked of candidate, though he has not yet said he is a candidate. And it seems to be that most of the delegates favor him. And just one final question, Councilman Brown. As an old fighter for civil rights in New York City, do you think that the split between the North and the South over the civil rights question will injure the party's chances in November? Well, I have never subscribed to the belief that a split between the North and the South over civil rights would injure the chances of the Democratic Party of winning. I think the time has come to resolve this question at this convention. An attempt was made the other night when a vote was taken on the law of the place. The fact is that the Southerners need the Democratic Party more than the Democratic Party needs the Southerners. Because in every election since 1936, the Democratic Party has won without the Southerners. In other words, if the electoral vote the party received in the South had been omitted, the party no doubt, the party rather, would have won in spite of that. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Brown. That was Earl Brown, Councilman from a and alternate delegate at the Democratic National Convention here in Chicago, as well as and assistant editor of Life Magazine. Pressman speaking to you from Chicago. Unless President Truman intervenes dramatically to back someone else, or there's a last-minute miracle, it appears this evening that Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois will be the Democratic candidate for President of the United States. The last hours have been hectic here in Chicago, with North and South feuding over the loyalty oath and civil rights question, and the presidential candidates making a final frenzy bid for support. Democratic leaders generally are hopeful of finally reaching a compromise on the floor, on all issues dividing North and South. But the biggest thing in the minds of the delegates this evening is what will happen tomorrow, or perhaps Friday. The balloting for President should begin tomorrow, and the decision should be reached either tomorrow or, certainly, by Friday. With that biggest of all issues soon to be settled, the mood of the delegates is tense and expectant. Actually, the names of three men are uppermost on the convention floor this evening. Albin Barkley, Harry S. Truman, and Adlai Stevenson. Mr. Barkley should be the man of the hour when he rises to the rostrum tonight to deliver his valedictory to public service. The vice president was bitterly disappointed when labor leaders rejected him as a presidential candidate on the grounds of being too old. The vice president had packed his bags and was ready to go back to Kentucky without making a farewell appearance. But a call from the president last Monday persuaded Mr. Barkley to change his mind. And the expectation this evening was that in obedience to his chief, Mr. Barkley would make a fighting exit from the political arena, calling on the Democrats to wage a vigorous campaign this fall. The diehard supporters of Mr. Barkley are hoping wistfully that his speech will stampede the convention labor or no labor. But that is considered a slim possibility. President Truman is also very much in the minds of the delegates as they finish up their pre-nomination business. The president is still the key man of the convention. Governor Stevenson has not yet unequivocally rejected the nomination and his friends are confident that he will be nominated. Only the president, observers here believe, could change the outcome. It's pretty well taken for granted now that Vice President Barkley was the president's first choice. If Mr. Truman remains silent, it's felt that he will be giving tacit endorsement to Governor Stevenson. There's been a last-minute effort by Averill Harriman and Senator Estes Kefauver to stop the Stevenson bandwagon from rolling. Today, Mr. Kefauver stopped, or rather stirred up a prolonged demonstration when he appeared on the convention floor. But these last-minute efforts to stop Stevenson may well be futile. The governor was reported today as having the backing of about 150 delegates, about 100 more than at the start of a convention, and with Missouri hopping on the bandwagon, later today, the Stevenson strength seemed to be growing hourly. Observers aren't dismissing the possibility of Stevenson coming so close to nomination on the first roll call that other delegations will switch their votes and send the governor over the 616 total required for nomination. If this happened on the first ballot, it would be a repeat performance of the Republican convention when a switch by the Minnesota delegation put General Eisenhower over the top. President Truman is expected to arrive here tomorrow or Friday. He's to address the convention after the candidate is chosen, but the president's choice should be known before then. As for Governor Stevenson himself, he's still in seclusion. There was one development that may have some significance. The governor had breakfast today with Oscar Chapman, Secretary of the Interior, and for a long time a confidential messenger from the White House. Neither the governor nor the Secretary of the Interior would comment on the meeting. Certainly, President Truman's choice should have great weight with the delegates. If Governor Stevenson is finally picked tomorrow or Friday, he has, of course, quite a job cut out for him. The governor will have to bring together the bitterly feuding factions from the North and the South. Perhaps one method he may use is in the selection of a vice presidential nominee. One Southerner, Senator John Sparkman of Alabama, reportedly has President Truman's blessing for the vice presidency. But in the last analysis, the decision on that candidate will rest, of course, with Mr. Stevenson or whoever else may be selected to lead the party. And if some sort of unity can be forged between the North and the South, there'll be one, only one, other problem for the man who's chosen. That, of course, will be to wage the kind of campaign that can defeat the Republican candidate, General Dwight D. Eisenhower. This is Gabriel Pressman reporting from Chicago and returning you to WNYC in New York. This is Gabriel Pressman speaking to you from Convention Hall in Chicago. Just a few minutes ago, the 31st Democratic Convention completed its first ballot for the nomination for President of the United States. No candidate had a clear-cut majority. The four top candidates were Senator Estes Schafalber of Tennessee, 340 votes, Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, 268 votes. He was in third place. And in second place, Governor Adelaide Stevenson of Illinois, 273 votes. And in fourth, Avril Harriman, the favorite son of New York State, with 123.5 votes. The way to the candidates finished, on the first ballot, again, Schafalber, Stevenson, Russell, and Harriman. Because of the results of the first ballot, a second ballot is now underway. 616 votes are needed for a nomination, and since no candidate was able to secure that number on the first ballot, the second ballot started just a few minutes ago, and the delegations are being asked to record their votes a second time at this very moment, as I talk to you. Meanwhile, the political leaders on the floor are engaged in earnest maneuvers, trying to swing these votes of favorite sons and other delegations who don't seem to have a chance over to the two frontrunners here, Senator Kefauber or to Governor Stevenson of Illinois. While we wait for the outcome of this second ballot, and there's no knowing at this moment whether the required number of 616 votes will be secured for any candidate on this ballot, there's no doubt doubting the fact that these last 24 hours here at Chicago have been extremely dramatic. As Jim Farley of the New York delegation said to me just a few minutes ago, these last 24 hours couldn't have been more dramatic if a script had been created by a Hollywood scenario writer. The bitter battle between North and South reached the climax at 2 o'clock this morning when the convention called a recess after 13 hours and 45 minutes of angry argument and parliamentary maneuvers right down there on the convention floor. 11 candidates have been placed in nomination by last night. The draft Stevenson forces hoped to have two nominating roll calls last night. But the Kefauber forces and the liberals backed by Averill Harriman, Senator Humphrey of Minnesota, and Governor Williams of Michigan stalled for time. Outside the convention hall in a bare room on the mezzanine just a few steps from where I'm speaking to you right now as a matter of fact, Senator Kefauber is lieutenant, Senator Douglas of Illinois, and various other anti-Stevenson leaders held a series of hurried conferences. Senator Kefauber wanted to stall until today in the hopes of gathering more strength. On the floor, meanwhile, delegates flared up repeatedly and it appeared that there might even be fistfights before the evening was over. Although the Kefauber forces did succeed in stalling the roll call for nominations until today, they lost the battle to keep the South Carolina, Virginia, and Louisiana delegations from being seated. These were the delegations that refused to sign loyalty pledges that would ensure that this convention's nominees got on the ballot in the November election in those states. The outcome of all this family quarreling finally was that the Stevenson forces and those of Senator Richard Russell of Georgia allied themselves and ultimately the Stevenson-Russell combination won. It happened this way. After Stevenson was nominated and, well, pardon me, after Stevenson was placed in nomination, there was a noisy demonstration. Former Senator tidings of Maryland moved that Virginia be seated even though Virginia had refused to sign a loyalty pledge. Virginia was seated. Later, Louisiana and South Carolina were allowed to take their seats also. This was a slap in the face of Senator Blair Moody of Michigan who as rules committee chairman had handled the loyalty resolution. It was also a blow at Franklin B. Roosevelt Jr. of New York, a leader in the fight for a loyalty pledge. Mr. Roosevelt, the congressman from Manhattan, demanded a roll call on Virginia. For a while, as the various delegations began voting, it looked like the vote would go against the South and for the Northern group. But then the moderate group, that included Jim Farley of New York, who was taking a stand here against the majority of the New York delegation, began going up and down the aisles trying to change the trend. When Illinois changed its vote from 45 to 15 against Virginia to 52 to 8 in favor of Virginia, the dam broke. The final vote, after all reversals by various states, stood at 615 yes and 529 no, and Virginia was seated. At this point, there had not been a reset for more than 10 hours, and either the delegations could go out for a sandwich and come back and start voting for the presidency, or go back to their hotels and go to sleep. After a hurried conference with Senator Keith Albert just outside the convention hall, Senator Douglas moved for adjournment until this afternoon, or actually until 11 o'clock this morning, although today's session didn't get underway until after 12. At this point, this was early this morning, there was a motion to table the Douglas resolution for adjournment, or for recess, and this motion came from one of Douglas' own delegates in Illinois. Most of the Illinois delegation has been for Governor Stevenson, but Mr. Douglas stands for Keith Albert. Most of the Illinois delegates managed to prevail on other delegations and in harmony with them, they felt that any delay would certainly not benefit Governor Stevenson's candidacy, and it might help Senator Keith Albert. At 1.10 a.m. today, House Speaker Sam Rayburn, who was the chairman of the convention, announced the results on the motion to table the motion to adjourn, and this was 671 for tabling and 534 against. It's translated from a parliamentary lingo that had even a lot of the delegates floored by the time the grueling marathon session was over. The translation simply was that the northern liberal forces had lost and that the moderates allied with the southerners had won. There would be no adjournment. There were these other developments immediately after that, a discussion between Governor Burns of South Carolina and an Ohio delegation, a member of Ohio delegation, about whether Governor Burns would do his best to see that the national candidates of the Democratic Party were placed on a ballot in South Carolina. Governor Burns seemed to say yes and no, and just then, glad that the figurative smoke of battle here in Convention Hall, there came some actual smoke from under a row of nearby seats. For a few seconds, the hall was very tense, and then a voice spoke into an open microphone and said, take it easy, don't get panicky. Just an e-clipper is burning, and the fire was soon put out. A panic was averted there just by good fortune, and actually, by virtue of the fact that it was a minor fire, it didn't really get in a stage of menacing the lives of the delegates or threatening injury to anyone. A motion for a roll call vote on the southerners then failed, and apparently that was the climax of the north-south struggle at this convention. The general bitterness was eased somewhat just before the recess at 2 a.m. today when a Negro baritone, Arthur Lee Simpkins of Augusta, Georgia, sang the Lord's Prayer to the hushed delegates. The excited thousands, who had actually got up to a fever pitch by that moment, became strangely quiet as that rich baritone voice concluded, the Lord's Prayer, that thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And at this point, the Stevenson forces, having won the victory on the test votes on the Germans and on the seating of the southern delegations, finally agreed to win the Germans. They felt they'd won their token victory, and it didn't matter. It wouldn't be just as well for the delegates to go back to their hotels for the remainder of the night. But in the remaining few hours before dawn, the Kefauver Harriman forces worked desperately to stop Stevenson. Franklin D. Roswell, Jr., Senator Humphrey of Minnesota, Governor Williams of Michigan, and others met in the Congress Hotel until just before dawn. Senator Humphrey said he had a general meeting of minds that the assembled representatives of the candidates had reached a general agreement on a ticket, and he also said, Senator Humphrey did, that when we get on the floor tomorrow, you ain't seen nothing yet. Today, Governor Williams and Mr. Humphrey reportedly phoned Governor Stevenson and asked him whether Kefauver would be acceptable as a running mate. And Stevenson reportedly said no. So far, it has appeared that the only apparently the only other apparent presidential candidate that the Governor Stevenson people are considering is Senator Richard Russell of Georgia. Well, that's the way the situation stands at this moment here in Convention Hall. The delegates are now recording their choices on the second ballot, and the first ballot vote put Senator Kefauver of Tennessee ahead. The first ballot results again are Senator Kefauver, 340, Governor Stevenson, 273, Senator Russell of Georgia, 268, and Averill Harriman of New York, the favorite son of the Empire State, 123.5. Just as soon as there are further results, WNYC will bring them to you from Chicago. This is Gabriel Preston reporting to you from Convention Hall in Chicago and returning you to WNYC in New York. This is Gabriel Preston taking you from the Convention Hall in Chicago. It looks like, in a few minutes, perhaps a half hour or a little more, the 31st Democratic National Convention will almost certainly have picked or be about to pick its nominee for the President of the United States. And right now, from where it looks in this rapidly, in this very tense Convention Hall, Governor Natalie Stevenson of Illinois looks like that candidate. On the first two ballots this afternoon, the race was tight. The frontrunners were Senator Estes Keith Fowler of Tennessee, Governor Stevenson of Illinois, and Senator Richard Russell of Georgia. But during the two and a half hour intermission between the end of the second ballot, which is around six o'clock in Chicago or seven o'clock New York time, and the present moment, things have changed radically. Just a few minutes ago, down on the convention floor, Senator Estes Keith Fowler and Senator Douglas made their way down to the platform, and Senator Keith Fowler obviously wanted to make some sort of an announcement. Now, apparently, that announcement won't be made, at least until the Tennessee delegation is called in the course of this third ballot roll call, which is far from cool at this point. The salmon of the proceedings here, Senator Sam Rayburn, the Speaker of the, pardon me, Representative Sam Rayburn of Texas, Speaker of the House of Representatives in Congress, would not allow Senator Keith Fowler to make a statement. However, Senator Blair Moody of Michigan, a prime Keith Fowler supporter, did make an announcement to the press just a few minutes ago, which said in effect that Senator Keith Fowler had conceded the election, although the nomination election here in Convention Hall to Governor Stevenson, despite the fact that Senator Keith Fowler was ahead, and Senator Keith Fowler was flinging his support to Governor Stevenson for this nomination for the presidency. Now, on the basis of the second ballot results, if Senator Keith Fowler can swing most of his support, or all of his support, to Governor Stevenson, Governor Stevenson will be nominated. There's no doubt about that. Senator Keith Fowler on the second ballot had 362.5 votes, and Governor Stevenson had 324.5 votes. I wanted to bring this report to you before WNYC left the air a few minutes from now. The way it looks from here, there doesn't seem to be any question about the fact that Governor Stevenson will be the Democratic presidential nominee in the election. Exactly what happened in those two and a half critical hours, it's too early to tell now. Perhaps when we have a little more perspective, we'll be able to tell a little more certainly. The fact is that President Truman arrived at about 5 o'clock Chicago time, and very possibly President Truman was in conference with various leaders and helped straighten things out here. On the other hand, it may be that the supporters of Governor Stevenson and Senator Kefauver worked out his deal quite independently. It may be that Senator Kefauver will get the vice presidential nomination. The president himself is at the inn right next door to convention hall. He has not appeared here apparently. He still expects the convention to come up with a nomination tonight, and although his speech has been somewhat delayed, he apparently still expects to address the convention. Now, the latest figures I have on the progress of the third fellow poll, which in view of the latest development, doesn't mean very much since Senator Kefauver's votes are going to be swung if the senator can do it to Governor Stevenson. The latest results up to this moment are Senator Kefauver, 105, Governor Stevenson, 173, Senator Russell of Georgia, 99, and at the moment the main delegation is being pulled. It looks very much like the key man of this convention is Senator Kefauver, the crime-busting senator from Tennessee, and that the bandwagon rush that was anticipated on the second or third ballot by such people as Jim Farley, the old political prognosticator and keymaker from New York, that this third ballot rush will become a reality. That's the way the picture looks in this very excited convention hall at this moment. The delegates have that bandwagoning feeling, and it seems likely that a decision will be reached here in Chicago before this night is over on the nominee 31st Democratic National Convention. This is Gabriel Preston reporting the developments as of now from Chicago at the Convention Hall and returning you to NYC in New York.