Thank you. The revised rent and eviction regulations, which the legislature directed must be issued not later than December 1, have gone into effect with very little disturbance in the normally smooth operation of the rent control system throughout the state. Some people expected more of the regulations than the law provided, but those who had read the law carefully were well aware that no great change could be made at this time. The fact is that the new regulations probably will affect a rather small number of tenants, and of course, a rather small number of properties. We shall not know approximately how many for some time, but the total cannot be large because the landlords who may apply for increases in rent are only those whose properties are operating in a loss or which are experiencing severe hardships at this time. I would recommend that any landlord who believes he might be helped by the new regulations first read them carefully. He may obtain a copy of any of our local officers. A large number of our explanatory pamphlets were issued to all of our officers last Friday. Until the new regulations are fully understood, it would be wasteful for landlords to apply for the forms which are prescribed. In understanding the new regulations, one must bear in mind that they are of a very temporary nature. The legislature intended that they apply only during the period between December 1 and the enactment of a new rent control plan at the next legislative session. Obviously, in advance of the permanent plan, it was not intended to eliminate at this time all of the inequalities that have developed through the eight years of control of rents and evictions. I must explain that when the legislature decided at its last session to take over from the federal government throughout the state and in New York City from the municipal government as well, the control of rents and evictions, it put into the law a plan that was to be developed in three stages. The first stage was the freezing of rents as they stood on March 1st of this year. This was, generally speaking, an absolute freeze. The law set the maximum rent at what the tenant then was paying for the accommodation and the services he was then receiving. The law did provide that where a landlord was willing to add to the services something the tenant had not had on March 1, he could obtain a rent increase provided that the tenant were to agree with him that he wanted the additional service and that he was willing to pay an additional amount agreeable to both of them. But even here it was required that the mutual agreement be approved by the local rent administrator, a provision that was added to remove any possible vestige of coercion by the landlord. The legislature, of course, realized that such an absolute freeze could not endure indefinitely because of changing economic circumstances, because of the widespread construction that was adding tens of thousands of housing units to these available, and for other economic and social reasons. So that in enacting this law, the legislature provided that while the freeze was being maintained, the rent commission was to study the whole rental situation, and present to the legislature by January 15 of next year a plan that would have much less rigidity, that would attempt to meet the changing situation, and that in the long run would be fair both to tenant and landlord. Obviously, rent control is needed only where there is a shortage of housing, and as this shortage disappeared, it was hoped that controls could progressively be relaxed and eventually ended. This very thorough study of the rental situation throughout the state was completed by November 1. Then public hearings were held at various places throughout the state. So that there will be the fullest understanding of the revised regulations, we have devised what we think is a rather unique package. We have issued in one pamphlet the amendment to the regulations, which includes the full text of the three sections which revise the regulations. With it, we are submitting what is legally called the statement of consideration for the issuance of the changes. And besides these, we are publishing three advisory bulletins which explain in rather more detail those situations to which the new regulations apply. Ordinarily, the regulations and the advisory bulletins are issued separately. But to avoid confusion, we have placed all these in one package so that those interested may make their own study of the regulations with the greatest possible convenience. We have tried to write the regulations in the simplest possible non-technical language. But since the regulations themselves cover rather intricate and complex situations, we have also had to avoid oversimplification. These interim regulations provide for adjustments in rent to meet three, I repeat, three hardship conditions. The first is where the landlord is suffering an out-of-pocket loss because the cost of operating a specific property is greater than the rental income. The second is where the rents of housing accommodations are higher or lower than rents otherwise generally prevailing in the same area for substantially similar housing accommodations. The third is where severe hardship will result because of what the Act speaks of, quote, gross inequities, unquote. Furthermore, it must be realized that in directing that these interim regulations be issued, the legislature specifically provided that the regulations were subject to the general limitation in the law that they be, quote, put into effect without general uncertainty, dislocation, and hardship inconsistent with the purposes of this Act, unquote. Now, the first of these situations is comparatively easy to understand. For a landlord to get a rent increase under this section, which is Section 37 of the regulation, he must be able to prove that he is actually operating at a loss. Many landlords may be deriving only a small return from their properties, but the number actually suffering a loss must be rather small. It should be fairly easy for a landlord actually suffering a loss to show that fact. Those who attempt to show it will be required to produce figures and proof which can be inspected by the local rent administrator and by the tenants. There is one point of more than passing interest. It is that in computing his operating costs, a landlord will be allowed to include mortgage interest, either than actually paid or at the most, an amount not exceeding the maximum legal interest allowed by the state, which is 6%, on a mortgage equal to two-thirds of the assessed value of the property. And because assessments in all part of the state are on various levels, we have provided that each level be brought up to 100% of value by using as a measuring rod the equalization table as determined by the State Board of Equalization and Assessment. The legislature has directed that where a landlord is maintaining his property and furnishing the services required of him, he should not be compelled to go on losing money. We feel quite sure the fair-minded public will agree with that. Now our survey shows only a small number of properties actually being operated at a loss. It is true that our survey is only a sampling. An actual experience may show a somewhat different situation, but we do not think so at this time. Further, our survey indicates that in those properties actually losing money, the amount that would be required from each tenant to take it out of the red would be relatively small. Furthermore, in making rent increases, the Commission shall give consideration to all previous adjustments or increases in the maximum rent which have occurred in the property involved. In the large apartment house, for example, where some tenants voluntarily gave a 15% increase several years ago, that fact shall be taken into consideration in allocating to the individual apartments an overall increase granted to the landlord, so that the new rental costs shall be shared more fairly than it is at this time. The second regulation, which is Section 38, concerns severe hardship growing out of a maximum rent substantially lower or higher than a comparable rent presented still another problem. It seems clear to us that the legislature did not intend by this provision to require adjustments in maximum rent solely because there are variations in such rents for similar housing accommodations. The intent was clearly to give relief only in cases where unique or peculiar factors cause rents substantially different from those generally prevailing for similar accommodations. Accordingly, this section does not permit adjustments solely because there are variations in rents for similar housing accommodations. This can be made clear by quoting from Advisory Bulletin No. 8, which says, There are two prerequisites to an adjustment under this section. First, the landlord must establish the existence of unique or peculiar circumstances which materially affected the maximum rent of the housing accommodations. Second, the landlord must establish that the maximum rent of the housing accommodations is substantially out of line with the rents generally prevailing in the same area for substantially similar controlled housing accommodations." Unquote. This advisory bulletin makes it very clear that in a multi-family structure, comparison of rents will usually be restricted to comparison with the controlled rents in that structure. Where one or two family houses are in law, the comparison may be broadened to include the maximum rent of similar controlled housing accommodations within the neighborhood. The third new regulation, which is Section 39, deals with severe hardships growing out of gross inequities. To indicate what this regulation covers, we give as an example a hypothetical case. Let us say that a landlord commenced the installation of steam heat and hot water in a building which had no heating facilities prior to May 1, 1950, at a time when he would have been entitled to a rent adjustment under the federal law then in effect. Now this major capital improvement was completed after the date the state rent control law took effect. Some of the tenants in this building, let us say, signed voluntary agreements to increase their rents because the provision of steam heat and hot water had increased their services. But other tenants refused to sign voluntary agreements even though they received and continued to receive the benefit of the improvement. This section is designed to provide adjustments in the maximum rents of those tenants who are still paying the lower rents. Also covered by this section is the kind of case typified by the following example. After May 1, 1950, the maximum rent of an apartment was reduced by the local rent administrator because of the landlord's failure to paint and decorate. The landlord has since painted and decorated the entire apartment, but the tenant has refused to sign a voluntary agreement restoring the rent to the former amount. Now that the landlord has painted and decorated, it would be proper under this section to grant a rent adjustment by restoring the former maximum rent. But in making any adjustment under this section, the local rent administrator will take into consideration all the factors bearing on the equities. From all of this, it is apparent that the number of properties that may be affected and the number of tenants who may be required to pay increases must be comparatively small. But it cannot be denied that in many instances, and I repeat just how many no one can say at this time, some landlords are entitled to relief. It is true that in these grave and hectic times, no regulation should have the force of permanency. Accordingly, the amendment itself makes it very clear that the new sections are adopted, subject to the power of the rent commission to change them as may be found necessary. Bearing in mind that the legislature has laid upon the commission the injunction to so administer the law as, quote, to prevent general uncertainty, dislocation, and hardship inconsistent with the purposes of the law itself, unquote. What seemed feasible when the legislature enacted the present law last March may have to be substantially altered because the international situation has worsened and the peacetime expansion of our national economy may have to give way to the military emergency which confronts our nation. State Rent Administrator Joseph D. McGoldrick recognizes, as I believe most members of the legislature recognize, that controls in and of themselves are repugnant to the way of life of our people and that they must be resorted to only to protect the general health, safety, and welfare of all the people. It is unfortunate that deficiencies in housing cannot be made up as quickly and as easily as shortages in raw materials and many manufactured products. It is unfortunate that real estate owners as an industry must continue to operate under controls so much longer than the other businessmen. Nevertheless, the facts, however unpleasant, must be faced clearly and we must not fail, particularly in a time of international crisis, to protect the public health, the public safety, and the public welfare. Tsong Horn Looks like a lot more sp loro update the community Ichbarra inmberca atница
