Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses, must mobilization destroy higher education? Taking part in today's Roundtable are Paul H. Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois, M.H. Tritton of the National Research Council, F.C. Ward, Dean of the College, and Kermit Evey, Social Scientist, both of the University of Chicago. To open today's discussion on, must mobilization destroy higher education, we present Mr. Evey. Now, my listener friends, you've read the morning paper. You've read about the executive order of the president as it affects the college future of some million American youth. And I suppose if you're like all other parents or people interested in education, you're not only thinking of this million, but you're thinking of those of your sons who may go into the military. I understand the significance of this issue. Mr. Tritton, you've been rather intimately connected in your work with the entire problem. Would you explain the significance of this order? Yes, Mr. Evey, I'll be glad to do that. I think to do that, I will need to go back just a little bit to give you some of the background. In the first place, the situation at present is exceedingly unprecedented. The mobilization applies essentially to a rather narrow age group. Particularly, it's true that the upper two or three years, say between the ages of 23 and 26, is largely unavailable, partly due to prior service, partly due to dependencies, and so on. This makes the major impact of this situation on a narrow age group of between about 19 and 23, which is essentially the age of going to college. Therefore, the impact of this on the college population is exceedingly critical. That is the age group that is standing the brunt of the whole mobilization program. It's for this reason that General Hershey, the director of selective service, established a system to help him try to solve this problem, and so that he might make recommendations to the government for the handling of the student problem. The members of this committee, I think you will be interested in, because they represent not only education, but leaders in industry, particularly the technical industry, leaders in other fields, such as the social sciences and the humanities, because the problem, of course, goes all the way across the curriculum. These committees examined the situation very carefully and in a very hard-boiled manner. The thing they were forced to decide was that it is exceedingly important in the kind of civilization we live in, and in the kind of wars that are fought these days, that we must provide a flow, a continuous flow, of people through the colleges in the various specialties which are of importance at the present time. Therefore, the thought of stopping this flow for even two years, for general service for everyone, seemed to be completely unrealistic and too serious in its effects on our general ability to meet the situation to be considered. For that reason, the committees came out with the type of recommendation which is reported in the papers today. Excuse me, what is the plan? I mean, just exactly. We ought to know. Well, the plan is essentially this, that if we must maintain the flow of persons in college and if we cannot, if we cannot defer everyone, we must select, and therefore we must have a provision for selecting. And that provision is based on the two customary measures of success in the academic environment. One of these, of course, is based on the ability of the individual in his classes. The other one is on a general psychological aptitude test so that the plan provides for the giving of a nationwide test. And if the individual scores a certain minimum score, which is as yet unannounced, he will then be permitted to be deferred for college training. Also, if he stands in the upper fractions of his class, and those fractions, I understand, are to be announced later, then he is also permitted to be deferred for continuing his training. Senator? May I ask this? Approximately how many of the million, three hundred thousand, million, four hundred thousand male college students will, in your judgment, be deferred from military service, and how many will not be deferred? Well, it's very difficult to estimate that, Senator, because this plan does not, of course, apply to the ROTC students. It does, it will not affect the four Fs. Therefore, it will affect only those who are subject to selective service at the present time. Our estimate is that perhaps of this latter category, somewhere in the neighborhood of forty percent of the freshmen will perhaps fail to qualify. And will therefore have to go into the military service. That's correct. But, gentlemen, there's another issue. And how many of the, what percentage of the sophomores? A somewhat higher percentage will be continued, because the... And a lower percentage will be sent into military service. That's correct. Say, thirty percent? That's right. And thirty percent of juniors? Somewhere in that neighborhood. Ten percent of seniors? Usually a small percentage. So you'll get roughly something, uh, one college class of four that will go into military service. And two or three of the college classes will be exempted from military service. A number is equivalent to that, yes. Yes. The question I was going to bring up, Senator, it goes beyond, uh, um, the technical aspects of this. Are we creating, by the nature of, uh, the decision, a sort of an elite? But, uh, we, this meaning that, uh, those that are culturally and wealthily benefited are going to go to college, and, uh, the rest of us are going to fight wars? What do you think about that? Well, I have very, uh, distinct, uh, moral reservations on the program that has been announced. And I think nearly all of us in Congress have been divided selves on the issue. We recognize the need for scientists and, uh, for men to make weapons as well as to use them. Uh, and we recognize the need for basic research which in turn, uh, feeds, uh, uh, development of weapons. But, uh, I think there is one thing that, uh, we do not want to do. Uh, in the first place, poor boys have great difficulty in going to college. In the main, uh, boys who go to college are in the upper third of the income groups. The people from the poorer families will not go to college, therefore cannot be exempted, have not yet found a field in industry so that they can be exempt on the ground of their being essential to an essential industry. So that, uh, this ruling will send large quantities of poor boys into service while equally, uh, are no more able, well-to-do boys will be exempted from service. And second, within the colleges themselves, those who stand well scholastically or of innate ability will be exempted or deferred from service, and those who do not do well will be sent into service. And I think it's very dangerous when we say that an elite will be protected from fighting for their country and protected from dying for their country, whereas people who, on an intellectual level, may be slightly less able to send out. I think, uh, that is very dangerous and it will properly be resented by the men who go into service and see their fellows being given preferential treatment. Now, Mr. Ward, you've had college experience, and, uh, what's your reaction to both points? Well, before Mr. Tritton comments, which I hope he will, on, uh, what the senators said, I think I can say that the senators define the major objection I feel for the plan. It leaves me torn, as anyone must be, who's concerned for college liberal education in this situation, between a concern that it be preserved and that there be students in the colleges who can have such an education, and a concern lest a liberal education which, because it gives deferment to students, isolates them from the common life of the nation and the race, would not really be liberal in its final effects in the nation. So I'd like very much to have Mr. Tritton's comment on this. Mr. Tritton? Well, I may say that this point was discussed perhaps more than any other single point in the, uh, many discussions with which the committee had. And I think the sentiment that the senator has expressed was felt very deeply by most of the members of the committee. But finally, we were up against the stern reality that we have, in this nation, created that kind of a civilization. We've created that type of strength, and it's the one that we rely on more than any other at the present time to meet the emergency that faces us. We can't meet the emergency by sheer manpower. We've got to do it by a better utilization of our science, our technology, and our natural resources. And carrying that to its logical conclusion, we just felt the need to provide a flow of persons so that we would maintain this superiority. Now then, what could we do about the point the senator brings up? We felt that so strongly that we recommended to the general that this point be brought to the attention of the Congress and some provision be made, if at all possible, to provide the same advantages for those who demonstrated their ability but did not have the resources to carry on their higher education. High school students? High school and college students. Will the examinations be given to high school students or only to college students? This particular year, there is so little likelihood that any of the high school graduates are going to be inducted before September that it seems unnecessary to give the test to high school seniors. Yes, but we are in this difficulty. Then only those whose families have the entrance price to take the examinations. And the poor devils who won't have the money to get to Scott's and college will therefore never be able to get the examinations at all. Well, to push that a little bit farther, I mean, in regard to this elite and those who don't have the chance to get to college, is there any possibility, any suggestion that you gentlemen have that in the form of scholarships or in the form of federal support that would make possible the education of people who aren't so fortunate? What's your suggestion? I'd like to ask, Mr. Troughton, whether during the discussions of this plan, which I know were very carefully worked out, was there consideration of rather general subsidy of students equally competent, some of whom could not economically go to college, and how much would it have cost to take them all into college? As to the cost, I suspect that a program of support of those who demonstrate ability to go on to college would cost perhaps 50 million for the first year for high school graduates. That's figured on the basis of about $1,500 a year for each one. And I think we will inevitably be forced into the position of establishing such a program in this country, the support of those who cannot afford to go otherwise and who demonstrate that. I see no other answer to the question. But this is not a corollary of the plan at present? Well, the committee, of course, unfortunately, was not in a position to do anything but recommend because they were stating a plan which could be worked out under the provisions of the Selective Service Act, the 48. And that does not include authority to grant fellowships. May I say this, that the magnitude of these exemptions are much greater than those which we thought would prevail when the Senate considered the Selective Service and Universal Military Training Bill. There was a provision that 75,000 were to be exempted a year. And this present ruling, under the discretionary powers of the present, pressed me as though it would exempt from 250,000 to 300,000. I voted after being very unsentious to what I should do for an exemption of 75,000. But I must say that an exemption of 250,000 seems pretty high to me. And if I had known the numerical figures involved, I may say that Senator Corden of Oregon and very sincere service speeches raised this issue on the board of Senate very, very clearly. But isn't there one probably Mr. Tretton and Mr. Ward would comment on it. Well, he's finished their coverage. I mean, in relation to their service. Only 75,000 first. This figure of 75,000, I think it's fair to state was arrived at without any very basic calculations. There has been since that time an analysis of the situation by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and an official report by that Bureau is out. and it is their statement that with the selectivity involved in this program, 93,000 per year, that is, in each entering class, would have to be deferred to provide healing arts in science and not including the other fields. Well, let me ask you this. I suppose that their foundation was that permanent armed force, at least for some years, of three and a half million. That's right. That's right. 9 million now. That we therefore need to plus perhaps 200,000 more to take the place of unorganized reserves, whom we hope will be released in the fall. And that therefore, we only need about 800,000 more to some 200 and under this program. Could not anchor. the miller, that's true. That's correct. These were the right ones to exempt if you exempt anybody. I don't think I need. Yep. Well, I would like to stress this, if I may. I hope that this may be a deferment and not an exemption. And I hope that ultimately, these men may be called in to at least bear some period of time in the armed defense of their nation. I do not believe they should be permanently exempted. I think they should at least serve a six-month period later. And that in return for their deferment, that some period of civilian service in the national interest should be required in addition. Very frankly, if I were a young man with poor parents, or a man who was in the lower third of my class, and was sent into military service, and put into a rifle company, and I saw my confrayers with more money or with more brains driving Cadillacs around college campuses, I should feel that the system was unfair, and I believe that unless we do something to get equality of sacrifice, there'll be a smarting sense of injustice which will run through the whole nation. It may be inevitable, but the people who are deferred should ultimately give to society as dangerous service as is being asked of those who are not being deferred, and as useful service, and they should not be allowed to have the economic privileges which are of necessity denied to private in the armed. Now, Senator, and gentlemen, I think we agree with the moral impact of Senator Douglas' statement, and I think we share it, but we're face-to-face with another problem of pretty profound significance these days, and that is that we are in a society of technology, we are in a society of engineering experts, we are in a society where we need certain kinds of trained people, and I'm trying very hard in my own mind how you reconcile the basic principle that you gave, Senator, and the very sheer... How do you reconcile? Well, I agree that in a period when you are drafting men for two years in order to build up an armed force of three and a half million, that a two-year interruption of a man's life is very severe, but I would like to point out that if we had had universal military training when the president asked for it in 1946, with, let us say, six to eight months in military camps getting basic training, and then men going back to their home communities moving into reserve divisions which would take perhaps a month a year out of their time and some evenings, that the initial six to eight months period would not have interfered with the career even of prospective Einsteins, that they could have spent six months and it would have benefited them as men and I think as scientists, and then when they had gone home, they could continue their technical studies. But we didn't do it. We didn't do it. And I hope that as we develop a universal military training system, which in part replaces the selective service system, that we can democratize both military training and education so that everyone will be, except those who are restrained by conscientious people, that everyone will be a soldier, and at the same time, a citizen, and that also those who are qualified may become scientists. But we didn't have it. And we're interested primarily at this point on the impact of this order on education. I think it's an argument for universal military training. Yes, but I accept the fact that it is an argument for it, but I'm also interested that we develop as we go along the impact of this whole order on higher education and higher education as it affects the various schools and colleges because I believe that the matter of national defense is not only the matter of the military, not only the matter of the draft, the national defense has to do with the maintenance of certain democratic and cultural ideals. And furthermore, many of them come, Paul, as you know, from the small colleges that we went to, the Manchesters, the Oberlands, and so on. And I'm interested in the temptations that will come to colleges as they relate to this program to lose certain aspects of that idealism. Mr. Warren? I think the greatest temptation will be not to find a middle ground between cooperation and suicide, that the nation looks to them for the preservation of the quality of its life and looks to the military for the preservation of the life of the nation, that the both parties recognize this. As far as I can see at present, the military is not proposing that we alter the nature of the education we have thought sound and essential. and I think the educators are beginning to realize that in an emergency you at least get a chance to look with greater intensity than usual at your own previous mistakes, duplications, possible loss and waste of time. A recent conference of the American Council on Education proposed a re-examination of the content, length, and articulation of elementary, secondary, and college education. This might mean that we would find without any loss of educational values the time that the nation is now asking for from the young men coming up through the system. Well, may I fill in there? I was once a teacher, though I changed my profession now to being that of a politician. And I think there's a good deal of waste in our colleges which must be eliminated. There's a lot of waste time both in the arrangement of courses and in the attitude of students. If we exempt students, and I do not know that we should exempt as large a number as we are doing, but if we do, there's a solemn obligation upon those students and upon the colleges to put that time in to the best advantage. There can be no justification now for the continuation of Joe colleges all over the country. There can be no justification of universities being country clubs. They must purposely develop good men and men who do not feel exempt from the burdens of life. Well, my argument at that point, Senator, is that many of the colleges that we've mentioned are the very focal points of the development of these kind of people. And furthermore, my concern with the colleges is too often they've looked to political Washington and military Washington for decision. And I'd like to hear from the educators here on an answer to this question. I feel that... Might I ask Mr. Tretton what he does think about the possible long-range advantages in re-examining our procedures in education? Well, before I do that, I would like to make one comment to what the senator said. I think this re-examination should also go into the high school. I have the feeling that the high schools could well re-examine their function because there's a widespread belief that much of the wastage of time in American education occurs at the secondary level. I think that's well worth examining. On this other point, Mr. Ward, I wonder if it isn't possible that we are thinking of this particular crisis too much as a military crisis. And if that's the case, I think it's important that in this re-evaluation of college education, we ought to do it on as broad a time scale as possible. We ought to look to the very nature of this emergency. It's my feeling that the emergency is much more than merely a conflict with communist Russia. That conflict, of course, is fundamental and I think is going to be long-lasting. I don't see that we're going to settle that very soon. The conflict is too fundamental. But I think we'd make a mistake if we thought that was the only thing that was going on in the world at the present time. There's a very widespread feeling of unrest in the world. People are just tired of being poor and they're tired of starving and they've seen the Western world. They've seen better ways of living and they're groping for something of that kind and that's why you have these movements in China and India and the Near East and South Africa and all over the world. Those are partly fundamental things and it seems to me indicate a very long-range crisis. Well, in light of these fundamentals, how much initiative rests with these colleges that we're interested in? I mean, do they have the initiative to dream? Do they have the initiative to plan? Will more and more initiative become governmental and will the influence of the military through our OTC make its impact so that this initiative in the Oberlands and the other schools that we've mentioned will not be as strong as it was? My impression is that they can have as much initiative as they will take. Go ahead. And that it probably is their obligation to examine all the dimensions of this crisis as Mr. Trittman is suggesting and put to a better use than we probably have in the past the resources that the colleges alone possess for examining this situation and preparing young men and women to deal with it. Are you saying they don't need to look to Washington? I think they should not and that Washington need not expect them to if they will do their specific business in the nation. Not only don't think they should but traditionally in this country our educational philosophy and our educational method at the higher educational level have grown up in each college. That's where the leadership has been in the past and right now the confusion has stopped and they have been looking elsewhere for guidance but that guidance hasn't begun to develop in Washington and I think shouldn't develop there. I think it should develop in the colleges. I agree. Well I would like to emphasize this if I may that we certainly should not encourage in this country an intellectually or economically elite class which is protected from danger and from hardship. In fact that is not a real spiritual elite. It is a pamper. A privileged group. And I would much prefer to honor the poorer and possibly the dumber men who go into the rifle companies and bear the burden and danger that they are the real elite even more than those who on an examination scale may rate higher than they do. Of course their, Senator Douglas is a question which haunts me primarily because of connection with the labor movement. I've learned long ago that indigenous leadership which shares experience is significant leadership but I've never yet found in modern education a way to find this indigenous leadership in many of these groups and bring it up through the educational structure so it would make possible a greater contribution. And if I were asking in a question do you see a way that we can not only recruit leadership from the ranks of the colleges but from the armies so it is. I personally think all this strengthens the case for universal military training for six months for everyone with officers selected from men who have served as privates rather than from a separate elite group scientists in turn selected but everyone going through a basic experience and basic hardships common to all. Sometime we may have to do your attention. I was interested in your comment Mr. Eby because it seems to me we had to realize that it's actually in the smallest colleges places. It's a much smaller unit. There's much more ability for the individual in that situation to achieve leadership, to assume leadership. I have a feeling it's more a laboratory of democracy than in some of the very large institutions. That's why I think this small college problem is a very central one in this whole thing. We've got to protect them too. Well that's why I would like to conclude almost with this last question. What do you see as the impact of this overall program on this kind of college and on the American student as a whole? I mean if we could have a reaction or two. You want me first? Yes, mister. Well I think the impact on the small colleges is going to be much less with this program than with any other that have been produced. That's the first point. In the second place, I think the impact on the small colleges is going to be heaviest in their attempts to hold adequate faculty because for the good faculty people there are going to be lots of opportunities elsewhere. I think what Mr. Trittman said are the major points I would emphasize and I won't waste further time. I think we must democratize both education and military service. Ladies and gentlemen, you've heard the discussion so far. You realize that there's a significant executive order made. We've spent considerable time with the moral issue involved in equality of sacrifice and I believe we agree that that sacrifice should be as nearly equal as possible. We're also face to face with the fact that in a technical civilization we need a technically trained people. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part at the Bay of University of Chicago round table, I must mobilization to the C. H. Trittman of the National Research Council, F.C. Ward, Dean of the College, and Kermit Eby, social scientist, both at the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's round table discussion of must mobilization destroy higher education contains the full text of the discussion and a special supplement of useful materials on college students and military training. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago round table, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the round table pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago round table, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, Senator Robert A. Taft and New York Times military analyst Hanson Baldwin discuss how can we best defend America. Be sure to hear this important round table discussion. today's round table program originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The round table is a public service presentation of NBC. Tonight, theater guild presents The Fallen Idol. Hear it on NBC. struck by the seinen director goes in America. Auntie