We find for our program tonight that we have a representative of our federal government in the person of a very well-known agent of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics, Mr. Leroy W. Robinson, who has been with the Federal Bureau for about 14 years and has had very wide and varied experience in investigations of criminal violations of the narcotic laws. Mr. Morrison is the group leader of the first enforcement group in his office. In the absence of the district supervisor, he is acting district supervisor of this entire district. Agent Morris was for several years the agent in charge of the field office of this bureau in Washington. And while in this assignment, he had occasion to travel extensively throughout the United States on interstate investigations of illicit narcotic traffic. We have a profitable discussion promised us in the presentation that I am now privileged to make, Mr. Leroy W. Morrison, Federal Agent. Mr. Morrison. Dean Keeley, Senator Halpern, Judge Troy, Mr. Chairman, members and friends of the Queens College Alumni Association. You know, I was introduced one time to give a talk, and my name never did come out as Morrison. It came out by the chairman of the committee who said, I now introduce to you Mr. Narcotics who will give us a talk on dope. So, at a meeting of this type, I feel that there are certain things that all of us should know about the background of narcotic drugs. The federal angle of it, of the enforcement of the laws. I might mention to you that the United States Treasury Department, through the Bureau of Narcotics, is charged with the enforcement of the federal narcotic laws. Now, this job includes the task of supervising the opium, which is imported into the country legally for medicinal purposes, and also the job of eliminating or doing our best to eliminate the unlawful trafficking in narcotics in our country. It may be news to a lot of you folks to know that no opium is produced or grown in the United States. All of our medical needs of opium are imported pursuant to permits issued by the Commissioner of Narcotics in Washington, D.C. The opium, which we import then, is sent to manufacturers, where it is converted into morphine, dilaudid, pantopone, codeine, tamperated tincture of opium, which is paragonic, and about 54 other variations. These drugs that I have just named are used, of course, in or for bona fide medical patients. That is the reason why we legally import opium into this country. Now, aside from the medical angle, there may be some figures of interest. Through some research, inquiries, and investigations, we have learned that there are approximately 3,000 tons of opium harvested annually throughout the world. Of those 3,000 tons, only 400 tons are required for medical purposes. You can readily see that the other 2,600 tons fall into the hands of syndicates, well-organized syndicates, I might say, that the other 2,600 tons of opium harvested annually, and eventually to the smugglers who bring it into not only the United States, but illegally into other countries, and then, unfortunately, to the addict consumer. I agree with the things that have been said before, that narcotic addiction is one of the worst scourges on the face of the earth. To see an addict who is deprived of narcotic drugs is something that is heart-rending. They're the most piteous, wretched, depraved, and sorrowful-looking people you have ever seen. It's really saddening. You see homes broken up. You see lives ruined completely by it. And if everyone in the whole United States could see things like, perhaps, the police, the narcotic agents, our interested legislators, our justices of the courts, I am sure we would go all out for a very strenuous fight against the evil of narcotic addiction. Opium and its derivatives have been known for centuries for their qualities of relieving pain. Now, addiction in the United States, I would say, goes back to the Civil War period. That time is when we first became cognizant of the situation brought about by opium and its derivatives. And we started to pay some attention then to the subject of drug addiction. After the Civil War, we had the invention of the hypodermic needle. Most of you here this evening know what a hypodermic needle is. And that, of course, encouraged the use of narcotic drugs. After the hypodermic needle was put into wide use, we had a German chemist who discovered heroin in 1898. Now, heroin was a drug that they thought would be able to replace morphine because of its hypnotic as well as narcotic qualities. However, it was found that heroin had such high degree or high tendency to cause drug addiction that in 1922 it was outruled. Heroin, I believe now is the actual heroin as manufactured by the pharmacy houses or the manufacturers, is about three or four times stronger than morphine. And as I said, it had extreme tendencies to produce drug addiction. During the first years of the 20th century, it was realized that no nation could deal with the problem of opium and their derivatives without the cooperation of other countries, and especially those countries in which the raw product, the opium, is grown or the manufactured drugs were produced. There followed a series of meetings with representatives of our government and other governments. Agreements were reached. Treaties were agreed upon. And our Congress started taking some force. And in 1914, yes, in 1914, our Congress passed what was known then as the Harrison Narcotic Drug Act. This law now is part of the Internal Revenue Code. What it did, in a few words, as few as I can make it, was to take narcotic drugs away from the laymen, that is, the people who were not trained to handle them, and place them in the hands of people who we call registrants, who are doctors, druggists, veterinarians, dentists, hospitals, manufacturers, and wholesalers, but under certain requirements. In other words, these registrants had to comply with certain requirements set up by the various states, and they had to register with the collector of Internal Revenue before they were permitted to handle drugs or to prescribe them to patients, as in the case of a doctor. Now, a patient may legally possess morphine or any other drug other than heroin, I would say, other than the derivatives of opium other than heroin or smoking opium, by means of having it issued to them by a bona fide narcotic prescription written by a registered doctor. Well, there are a lot of explanations to go into on that law, but basically I think I've covered that. Then in 1922, Congress passed what was known as the Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act. This law basically eliminated or made it illegal, I meant to say it made it illegal to possess heroin or smoking opium. Smoking opium is used only to satisfy the cravings of addicts. The law now made it then illegal to possess heroin, which, as I said before, was found to have such high tendencies to create addiction that it was ruled out by this Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act. And one way they tried to prevent the spread of drug addiction was the Narcotic Drugs Import and Export Act. In 1930, Congress passed a bill making a separate unit of the Treasury Department responsible for enforcing the laws. The Bureau of Narcotics was created in 1930, and under the direction now of Mr. Harry J. Anslinger, Commissioner of Narcotics, who is also the United States Representative to the United Nations Committee on Narcotic Drugs. We are a small organization compared to others. We have slightly over 200 agents at this time, more than we've had for some time in the past. But in spite of our small number, we represent only 2% of federal law enforcement agencies, but we are responsible for 10% of federal prisoners being in federal institutions. I read an article that was published by an authority in our Bureau stating that our organization, since the beginning of the year, had made over 5,000 arrests. Now, we can't always get people like Waxy Gordon, but we try. And that, I'd like to deviate from some of my notes here. My time is very short. But Senator Halpern made a reference to that case, and I think it was one that required a great deal of time, some intelligence, and several thousands of dollars. I see a man sitting in the audience tonight who was partly responsible for the successful conclusion of that case. The enforcement of the federal laws by our Bureau is something that we're trying to get it on what we might say a big time or a federal level. Now, don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying that we are not cooperating with anyone who asks us for cooperation. We cooperate hand-in-hand with the police departments in New York City, New Jersey, Connecticut, and any place at all where we get calls for assistance. But what we are trying to do is to get at these fellows who are the bigger dealers, not the street corner peddlers, not the small-time pushers, but the fellows who are actually engaged in interstate and international negotiations or smuggling or trafficking. At the present time, we are also working very closely with the United Nations in trying to hit the narcotic trafficking even harder by eliminating it at its source, a source like, for instance, Italy. We're attempting to knock out the diversion of the illegal drugs in Italy and prevent those that do escape the officials there from getting into this country. We work closely with the Customs Service, which organization, rather, is responsible for maintaining the watch at our borders and on our waterfront. But it's impossible for them to cover everyone, every person, or every ship that comes in. And we are now engaged, too, in a training program throughout the United States for the local police departments in helping them to recognize narcotic drugs, the symptoms that they should look for on an addict, or the method that they should use in tracking down peddlers within their own locality or confines. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Against this background of history and description and planning, national and state-wise, we turn, we bring the question of judicial decision, turn the light immediately onto our own question of what can we hope to do, what really is immediately practical, what is there in our discussion within our own reach. We feel that one of our own judges here may be a very person to help us a great deal, and we're welcoming Judge Matthew Troy this evening. Judge Troy has had a very particular association with the problem under discussion, and in his many and varied activities, just a word of which I've had now, as a citizen and lawyer and American Legion man and many others, he brings to us a wide and meaningful experience. Justice Matthew W. Troy of our Court of General Sessions here in New York City. Justice Troy. Thank you very much, Sandra Halpern, Mr. Morris, and Mr. Abiziaz, lovely lady, chairlady here tonight, and all you nice people up in the audience. It's a pleasure to come here, however, and join in this discussion, and I'm grateful for the invitation. After 15 years upon the criminal courts bench, and years prior to that as counsel for the police department, and while I was studying law and a student, after I got out of the service that left me out, I was in underage and underage when I got out of the Army. I was one of four brothers who volunteered. My three brothers had gone, and I felt they couldn't win the war without me. Three months after I was in there, if I could gracefully get out, I'd have gotten out of it, but there I was, and I stayed there until the end. After all the years of watching law enforcement, I'm impressed with a number of factors that we must keep in mind, and eternally keep in mind. Let me pay tribute to the law enforcement agencies, and particularly to the federal law enforcement agencies. I say they're hopelessly undermanned and hopelessly underpaid for the tremendous job they're doing. They have a terrific job. And when you're heard of the surplus drugs in the world, the 2,600 tons of drugs, you begin to ask yourself a very simple and very logical question. Where are they going, and why are they produced? Now, we know. We know the drug trade is perhaps the most profitable trade in the world today, and that the drugs, the surplus drugs, go where the money is to the United States of America. The whole story of drugs, as Mr. Morrison so well indicated to you, is an intriguing story. Those of you who are familiar with history, of course, know that wars were fought over the opium trade, and England waged at least two of them to control the opium trade. And she hasn't her fingers out of that opium trade yet, as a matter of fact. It's a very profitable trade. Now, the recent narcotic conference in the Waldorf Astoria that under the auspice of the American Legion, Assistant District Attorney of New York County told us that the, and I think it was verified later by one of the federal men, that drugs had gone from $60 an ounce to $600 an ounce. Drugs were then only 60% pure. And now normally that would indicate a shortage. But the drug habit and the drug trade violates every known economic rule of supply and demand. If you have a shortage, you have high prices in black markets and gray markets and what other kind of markets. But there isn't any shortage of drugs. There isn't any shortage of drugs to warrant that $600 an ounce. The truth of the matter is that it is the most profitable and vicious business in the world to date. And I'm saying now that if there weren't so much money in this drug business, we'd have had international control a long time ago. While the, Mr. Morrison's associates are doing heroic work in trying to control it, it must be controlled at the source. because time was when the nation's now producing the surplus drugs and obviously producing them for the United States of America. Time was when they were so independent that they did not have to listen to the admonition of the United States of America. But the picture has changed today. Today they need the help and the support, the financial and military help of the United States to stay free. The United States is in a position today to say to them, you're either going to stop trying to destroy our young and old people in the United States or we're going to let you sink. Now I have authority for the statement that behind the Iron Curtain drugs may not be administered anywhere except in the hospital. Ye gods and little fishes that we have to go behind the Iron Curtain to get an appreciation of the seriousness of the drugs. In our court, there's a constant parade of young and old. I handle the youthful offender part in the court. Mr. Morrison has just told you how pathetic it is to watch that stream go by. Sergeant Halpern has done a mighty job and he's a very competent, very efficient and a very conscientious legislator. I'm proud to come into the County of Queens and give that testimony here in his presence. I admired him tremendously. He's doing a great job. Maybe he's better off because he's not a lawyer. Who can tell? But he's gone to work with a determination and with an intelligence that warrants the commendation of all of us. But there's this to be said, Ford, that in trying to prescribe penalties, in trying to frighten people with death penalties and everything else, you've just got to turn around and look at this nation. This nation is not geared for death penalties. We have the death penalty for murder in the United States. How many people are executed? Just look at the figures. Look at the number of murders in the United States. We're perhaps the most lawless nation in the world outside of the Iron Curtain. But how many executions do you have for murder in the first degree? We're more or less of a tender-hearted nation. And when you get down to saying this fellow must be killed and that woman must be executed, it's hard to get away with in the United States. Saying that the murder is a severe punishment is one thing. But trying to enforce that law as something else again. Secondly, our experience with youthful drug addicts is just this. We love to encourage them to come in and get treatment. With all due deference, the federal government in Lexington, Kentucky is the last place in the world I'd want to send anybody. And I have no power to send them there. And one of those fine days you're going to read a survey in Lexington. And when you find out how many people walked out of Lexington, Kentucky last year, just last year alone, and that's a typical year, and I'm at liberty to reveal the figures tonight because the man who made the survey told them to me confidentially, you're going to be shocked. Senator Halpern is talking about a place here in New York City where we can commit them. That sounds to me like an intelligent approach. And I'm not prepared to say that a young addict is a criminal. Nor am I prepared to have someone tell me that I must give him two years or three years. Senator Halpern is entirely right when he says that each case must stand upon its own fact. I have them young and old coming in to me and they're pathetic. If I had to be removed from the bench tomorrow afternoon, I wouldn't send them to prison. Some of the people I meet in there. Because I know the whole situation, I know the background. And our investigators, our probation officers go out and make a complete and thorough investigation. And you cannot generalize on a situation of this kind. I feel sorry for young people and old people who are addicted to drugs. It's a communicable disease. There's no question about it. And that's the most intelligent and most apt way of describing it. Someone once said to me, and I'm not too sure about it, that it couldn't be right. Someone once said to me, is it possible or could it be possible that Soviet Russia would deliberately set this drug trade going in the United States to so demoralize the nation that when and if she was ready to move, we would not be able to defend ourselves. The fact, of course, is that in World War II, the figures were never published, that there was a large percentage of Americans rejected because of drug addiction. That came to light only recently in one of our television shows where a doctor said that the returning GIs were responsible for the drug addiction and the prevalence of drugs and the widespread use of drugs in the United States. What an erroneous statement to make. But, of course, our problem at the moment is to take the situations we find. I repeat, I take my hat off to the law enforcement agencies. I take my hat to Senator Halfon and the men who are working, striving earnestly to set up curbs for it. You are not going to cure things by threats, nor yet by severe sentences for drug addiction. You must encourage the addicts to come in and treat them. Trying to prove sales is the most difficult job and the Waxy Gordon case is typical of what they're up against. It's almost a physical impossibility to catch them. They surround themselves with all kinds of safeguards and you get back four or five or six steps to the peddler, to the big man behind the sink. But I repeat this, there's one thing common about drugs that is common and about every other illicit trade that has a lot of money behind it. There's a great attraction to get in for the easy dollar and drugs is profitable and vicious, more profitable perhaps than any other trade in the United States today. And it's easy to get into the racket because once you start using drugs yourself, as you've been told tonight, you can't get the money for it, you're going to peddle drugs in order to get your own supply. And as you go from bad to worse, you wind up like the girl that Senator Halpern told you about. And I repeat that there must be international control, that the United States government must move on an international scale, way above the heads of the law enforcement agencies because their task is almost superhuman and yet they are doing a mighty task, a gigantic task. And we owe them a debt of gratitude for the work they're doing. But it must be on an international scale. And the United States government today is in a position to say to the countries, and they know the countries and we know the countries where the drugs originate. We know where the surplus drugs originate. The United States government is in a position to say now to the countries, you're going to cooperate with us, you're going to save our nation, or we're not going to save yours. Maybe that's a thought that will kick around for a while. Thank you. Thank you.