Good morning ladies and gentlemen, we're speaking to you from LaGuardia Field Municipal Airport, the city of New York, where we are awaiting momentarily the arrival of the C-54 transport plane, which will bring General Dwight D. Eisenhower to the greatest of cities. There has been some delay, obviously because of poor weather conditions between here and Washington, but we have everything in readiness for his arrival. As a matter of fact, a few C-54 planes came in, and of course everybody around would start to wonder whether or not that was the plane which was bearing the famous General. We do have time to tell you that all plans as arranged will go on since the weather. While it is a dark day and one which is threatening weather, we are assured that there will not be rain, and so if you want to see the General, you still have plenty of time to get out along the long route and see him. When he does arrive here, of course, there will be ceremonies which we'll describe for you. The General will then head a 25-car motorcade, which will go along Grand Central Parkway here in Queens, across Triborough Bridge, and to Manhattan at 122nd Street. The Cortez will then proceed south on the East River Drive to 96th Street, then went to 5th Avenue, north to 102nd Street, and into Central Park. It will go north on the park's East Drive to the 103rd Street Cross Drive, then west to the West Drive, south to 72nd Street, and across the park to the East Drive, south to 5th Avenue, emerging at 60th Street. Then, of course, it will go down south on 5th Avenue to 23rd Street, switching over to Broadway, and down Broadway to 14th Street, east to the East River Drive, and south to South Ferry, then north on Broadway to City Hall. The ceremonies at City Hall are expected to handle about 40,000 persons. General Eisenhower will speak there, and Mayor Ligotti, who is attendant here, will present a special gold medal, which was struck for this occasion as a gift from this city. And incidentally, we might mention that this medal was struck off in record time. The official party is expected to leave City Hall about 12.40, which would make it about 10 minutes late, and head for the mayor's home, which is Gracie Mansion in Carl Schertz Park. There, the mayor will be host to a private luncheon for the general. And that trip is expected to take about 45 minutes. We can tell you that the police arrangements leaving here at Ligotti Field to New York City will find them proceeding at a speed of 35 miles an hour. When they hit New York City, they will move at a pace of 20 miles per hour, and upon emerging from Central Park, will hit parade speed, which is 2 miles per hour. In the event that you're unable to get a look at this cortege, which will be moving to City Hall, you may have the opportunity of getting a look at it as it moves from City Hall to Gracie Mansion. That cortege will move north on Center Street to Lafayette and Spring Streets, then north on Lafayette to 4th Street, west to Washington Square, through the Washington Arch, and north on 5th Avenue to 23rd Street. Then west to 7th Avenue, north to Broadway at 43rd Street, then to 86th Street, and east on 86th Street, and through Central Park on the transverse road to 5th Avenue and 85th Street. North to 86th Street, east to East End Avenue, and north to Gracie Mansion. And of course, at 2.30, when the luncheon is over, General Eisenhower hopes to head to the Polar Grounds to see the baseball game between the New York Giants and the Boston Braves. And that route will be west to 1st Avenue, north to 116th Street, west to 7th Avenue, north to 151st Street, west to 8th Avenue, north to the Polar Grounds, and into the Polar Grounds. Of course, we can well appreciate that since the General has been overseas for so long, and he himself, as American as baseball, wants to see the great national pastime. The plans, which had been originally set up in case the weather was bad and rainy, are being completely disregarded now since we have the assurance that the weather will hold out. It is not a clear, sunshiny day. It has been threatening rain all morning. As a matter of fact, some three hours ago when we passed Ligartia Field, the sun was coming out intermittently, and it did look as if we might have a very strong shower. However, that has blown by, and while it is dark, it is cool, there's a crowd here lining the upper and lower boardwalks, which is about five deep, and thousands of American schoolchildren have American flags in their hands and are all set and ready to yell and wave as only they can when the General's plane reaches this field. We expect that in this party there will be three C-54 transport planes. Directly in front of the administration building is a huge platform which has been erected solely for the benefit of the photographers and for the greeting party. And out there at the moment, rather nervously, and perhaps as only he so energetically can do it, is the mayor, and he's walking around with that familiar big sombrero which he wears. Grover Whalen, who is acting with and for the mayor in greeting the General, is also out there, and they're all waiting for this moment when this plane will arrive. To the northern part of the field, there is a C-54 transport plane which is pulled in, loaded with cargo, and that has been sidetracked so that we do expect the General's plane to arrive here momentarily. Perhaps a word picture of the way we are strung out here. On field at the present moment is the Fort J Band, and the escort, the Guard of Honor, will be the 716th Military Police Battalion, and they are quartered at 4650 Broadway with Lieutenant Colonel Jack Williams commanding. They went through a few gyrations here and are now at parade rest, all lined up with a Fort J Band, and as each plane flies overhead, despite the fact that in many cases it may be just a one-motor plane, everybody, the youngsters especially, seem to think that it might be a C-54. The field has 25 cars set up here in a motorcade. The first line is five cars, the second 10 and the third 10. To the southern part of the field and to the right of hangar number one is a complete motorcycle escort for the official party, and there are exactly 100 motorcycles. In the official greeting party will be Mayor LaGuardia, Mr. Whalen, Lieutenant General Grunet, who heads the Eastern Defense Command, Vice Admiral Leary, who is the Eastern Sea Frontier Commander, Major General Terry, the head of the Second Service Command, Rear Admiral Kelly, the commander of the 3rd Naval Division, Major General Groninger of the New York Port of Embarkation, and Major General Francis O'Driscoll, the commanding general of the 1st Air Force fighter groups, and you'll remember that he headed to the 8th Air Force in Europe under Eisenhower, so that he especially here is anxious to greet his former commanding general. We are to the right of the administration building on a ramp which leads from the upper boardwalk, as are all other stations which are originating this broadcast. Directly below us and running far to our right are scores of military police. They are stationed here to prevent the crowds from breaking out, rushing on the field. The runway is the number one runway, and we have three dismounting ladders so that if the plane stops at any near any one of them, they can rapidly be moved into position so that there will be no delay in getting General Eisenhower and his group from the plane. Well, every time that they see a play, they think it is a C-54, and now here do come a group through the gray. The gray miss. We can see three huge planes, and they are C-54s. You probably can hear in the background the yells from the youngsters who are screaming, and we understand that these planes will circle the field and then come in for a landing, and they are four-motored C-54 transport planes. One has a tremendous lead, and so we expect that General Eisenhower will land in about five minutes. The guard of honor is in position. The band is in position. They will move from directly in front of us right to the dismounting ladder, and you can hear this huge transport plane as it cuts around, goes over the field, and moves in, and here come two more which are at least a mile behind, and they are separated by about a quarter of a mile. Four army cars and two navy cars are to our right, and they, of course, are the welcoming generals which we've indicated will be Generals Grunet, Terry, and Groninger, and Hunter, and two navy cars which have Admiral Leary and Admiral Kelly. Things become quite silent again as these planes go to the south, and we can tell you that a huge group of Red Cross workers are here, and they have a huge sign, each one carrying a letter to the right of us. It spells out welcome, and to the left of us it spells out home. Welcome home to General Eisenhower. Everything here is in complete readiness for any eventuality. We have ambulances, crash cars parked just in case anything goes wrong and nobody is taking any chances. To the western side of ramp number one are three saluting guns, and there gun crews are stationed there waiting to see in the moment that these planes will land why you will hear the reverberations in the background. Planes are lined up to the far side of the field. There's one yellow Piper, a Thunderbolt fighter, a single fighter, an Army gyroplane which blew up loads of dust before it finally settled and practically drove the gun crews from their positions. It's landed directly alongside of them. The planes have now disappeared into this mist and we can tell you that LaGuardia Field is situated to the eastern end of Queens County in New York City. We're bordering Flushing Bay which is used for amphibious and seagoing planes to take off. To the direct north is Long Island Sound and of course the man-made island which is in the center out there. We're waiting now to see if we can spot these planes and here comes a plane in and out of the mist. We'll keep our eyes on it. It's dropping now. It's about 500 feet and he's coming in to make a landing on the far ramp which is the spot where the C-54 transport with cargo is stationed and we spoke to that about and now here is one plane coming in. It is a C-54 a four-motor plane. The other two planes have disappeared in the darkness. And we don't know whether or not this may be the general. There doesn't seem to be any great indication and we're looking for the numbers 9-1-1 on the tail of the plane which indicate that it is General Eisenhower's plane and that of course is the same plane which made history by taking President Roosevelt to Yalta and back. An air of expectancy is running through the officials who are awaiting the general and as each plane nears why the police just keep rushing out to the front get the people away and make sure there is no interference. The motorcycle police apparently expect the plane to land at any moment because they have gone to their motorcycles and are stationed there. The weather is perhaps an excellent day for a parade because it is not too bright not too hot not too humid but it is dark and it is cool at any rate it is cool here out at LaGuardia Field. The police two hours ago cleared Grand Central Parkway and were preparing to shunt traffic and about every 100 feet there was a police officer. We understand that just about two-thirds of the entire police department has been called out to supervise the parade for General Eisenhower. Now another C-54 transport plane is pulling in and we still are awaiting that third one but apparently none of these planes at the moment are bringing General Eisenhower. One thing which particularly made a great impression upon us was the policing out here they're very strict certain areas are set off and there's been no great effort at regimentation. We noticed rather oddly too that not only are the policemen out in force but the police women are here in force and not only is the army represented here by the enlisted men and of course officers but also many WACs stationed here at LaGuardia Field are out to get a quick look at the General. And here comes another C-54 plane the third of the group that we thought were coming in and here comes one plane down now it's pulling in with two motors cut out and two going and he is being shunted off he's not going to come up this way he's going up a side ramp. First plane is taxiing off to the side and the third plane has landed and possibly that might be the one and we certainly hope there's another one which is now coming in a fourth plane will also come in a C-54 transport a fourth one is just emerging from the dusk and setting down to land and it's amazing how they come out of this what apparently is a gray mist over Long Island Sound and how quickly it can emerge and when it does emerge it's about 300 feet above the water and that plane is now coming in and will hit the far end of the ramp now four of them have three of them have landed four are coming in two are on the field and you may be sure there's a great deal of confusion as to just which one is General Eisenhower's plane and now another one is coming in a fifth C-54 comes out of the murkiness and the second of the five planes is being sent to the side let's see one is being wheeled around and this looks as if it may be that the plane has made a complete circle of the field rolling and it is being led in by a small tractor the kind that usually haul them out and this may be General Ike coming in now the plane has made a complete circle and is pulling in it is taxiing in two motors cut out one moving up and it's a Douglas C-54 and this is it there's the 911 the familiar number and the name of the plane is the Sunflower and it is being flagged in by one of the ATC men it's the number is 4911 it has a red symbol with five planes on it it is now taxiing up to the dismounting ladder and you can be sure that it will be a terrific roar as General Eisenhower steps out of this plane there's the plane cutting out it's other motors the door is opened and the dismounting ladder is being moved out and we're waiting to see whether or not the General will emerge first we imagine that it will that he will plane was 16 minutes late in getting in and the General is standing there in the doorway Ligardi is standing on the inner border of the line and here he comes and there's the roar that goes up from the crowd there's the shots in the background the salute two of them two of them three of them the salutes for General Eisenhower who has just arrived in New York City and there is the General shaking hands vigorously all around introducing his aides Captain Harry Butcher of the Navy and you can hear in the background that the salute are still going off and the third plane is being wheeled around and here comes the General from the plane the General a very robust figure with his chest really puffed out walking energetically with the Mayor and finally the Mayor faces the military police battalion and the Fort J Band and the General is looking over this way he's flanked on the left by Admiral Leary on the right by Lieutenant General Grunet and he is standing alongside of Mayor LaGuardia and the band strikes up and plays the Star Spangled Banner it is Ruffles and Flourishes and we assume that they will break into the Star Spangled Banner the photographers of Army and Navy news services are taking pictures of the General and he stands at attention with the Mayor taking his hat off holding it on his chest and we've just heard Ruffles and Flourishes by the Fort J Band the military police are now at attention the band plays the General walks past them with Colonel Williams who leads the military police and the band now is playing the General's March and the General Generalized now walks past them takes a good look at them he is dressed in suntans not in any battle jacket which he had a great hand in devising and he salutes the stars and stripes and the flag of the city of New York very smartly looks them over tells commanding General Luton here's another cheer for him the General really looks them over he's marched completely around them he's going now towards the back of them and he is engaged in earnest conversation with Colonel Jack Williams who heads the military police and now he's moving to the far side which is towards the ramp from which he has just arrived the four planes have brought the officers and men of General Eisenhower in the enlisted men are going by and one of them is Mickey McKeel who lives practically a stone's throw from here at LaGuardia Field he lives in Corona which is just about one half mile south of LaGuardia Field and the General still takes a look and there's a whole barrage of photographers in front of him as he goes around and now he is being led over he stops for just a brief moment he stops for a brief moment to talk with General Grunner and now he is being led by Mayor LaGuardia and he has a grin on his face just a mile wide the famous Eisenhower grin and he stops for a moment introduces some of his officers to those of the commanding generals of this the Second Service Command the Eastern Defense Command and Captain Harry Butcher is being introduced to Mayor LaGuardia he is the naval aide of General Eisenhower and the General in true American fashion he is so excited and so nervous that he pulls out a cigarette and lights it up and now the photographers move in to take snapshots often there's a crowd here at LaGuardia Field of about 15,000 one hour ago it had been up to 10,000 but they were pouring in there were five deep they're much deeper than that and of course there's a huge number of them on the lower ramp the military police that are stationed here at LaGuardia Field are forming along the inner ridge of the ramp getting a look at the General he is completely smothered now by photographers and newspaper men who are around him and as all of his men surrounding him all his officers are surrounding him and the men who came in on the second, third and fourth planes have gone to the cars in the motorcade each of them has a ticket which tells him what car he's in what seat he's in in the car I'd like to remind you that our coverage will also include spots in New York as this motorcade moves down to City Hall LaGuardia is introducing his aide Jim Hawken to the General the General salutes to him offhand fashion he's standing there that big smile on his face he's well tanned and again the photographers are just snapping that famous Eisenhower smile as he stands there's no doubt that the General is pleasingly embarrassed at this tremendous reception which he has received there's a huge number of military personnel here a major comes over he wants some more of these military police out there because the crowd which is getting out around Eisenhower is a bit unmanageable and the motorcade is getting ready to take General Eisenhower to New York City where the major portion of the reception will be made at City Hall so if you are along the route of travel and would like to see General Eisenhower you certainly have plenty of time to get there and to see him America's great hero who was commanding general in the European Theater of Operations the highest honor that any American general has ever had and certainly his operation in Europe the invasion the greatest military operation of all time June you know has been a lucky month for Eisenhower he graduated 30 years ago from West Point and it was three years ago that he was given the assignment as commanding general in the European Theater of Operations it was June 1944 that saw him invade successfully Europe and it was June that sees him now return home he's a Texan by birth he's lived in Kansas but New York City has taken him to its heart and today he has invaded New York City he's captured the place without a shot being fired and everybody just willingly capitulating to him he's now going to the car the motorcycles have started up and the millions of people in New York City in just a few moments will be able to see him he's now climbing into the car he and the mayor will be in car number one and in car number two will be General Walter Bedell Smith and Grover Whalen in car three will be Admiral Kirk and the Honorable C.R. Beasley Car number four will be Major General Harold Bull and Major General Littlejohn and in car five Major General Schlater and General Thomas Davis and here is car number one and a soldier runs out and shakes the General's hand the General shakes it very vigorously the car has the New York City emblem on the left in the front also has the New York City flag on the left the General smiles and waves they ask him to wave he does he waves he smiles and that grin hasn't left his face from that moment when he so nervously stepped from the C-54 plane which is ready to be towed away on the right side of the car is a red flag with five silver stars on it and again the photographers swarm in on top of the General and some of the men in attendance here have gone over and shaken hands with the General and he very energetically shakes hands with him he shakes hands as if he means it and he does of course they're keeping everybody away from him now the motorcycles are starting to move away the car is moving away it circles around it heads now for New York City over the Triborough Bridge and that's just about all that there is from here at LaGuardia Field and they're all lined up now the cars are pulling out and General Eisenhower is on his way to New York City that's all from LaGuardia Field we return you to our studios our next point of vantage in the parade on this historic General Light day will be 5th Avenue at 60th Street which we'll bring you just as soon as we can now meantime we'll have the BBC morning special at 10.30 for you until that time here is some recorded music appropriate for the day clear clear contact contact off we go into the wild blue yonder climbing high into the sun here they come zooming to meet our thunder Adam boys give us a grunt down we dive spouting our planes from under off with one terrible roar we live in fame walker down in flame nothing will stop the Army Air Corps here's a toast to the host of those who love the past and love us high to a friend we will send the message of his brother men will cry we drink to those who gave them all a boat then down we rode before the rain was hot a golden toast and the host of men we boat the Army Air Corps I'm değilし' akan bueno diye goo useful as pronto mid honPaul mis時候 besさいああ unhappy hi Here we are on the northwest corner of 40th and 5th Avenue in New York City, and it's really a jam-packed corner this morning. Right above us, we're on Platform 1. Right above us on Platform 2, there are at least 25 photographers taking pictures of this tremendous crowd. The crowd is, in all aspects, tremendous and very, very quiet, calm, peaceful. They're not making very much noise. You probably can't hear too much of it behind me, but it is very, very large. The streets are absolutely jammed. There is just a single file of people going back and forth along the rear of the crowd, which is standing along the curb. And then alongside the curb in the street, in the gutter, I should say, there are hundreds of policemen lined down as far as you can see, keeping this tremendous crowd back. As we look across the street at the Lane Bryant building, people are sitting outside the windows, on the windowsills, their feet dangling in midair from as high as two stories, and it doesn't look particularly comfortable from where we stand. And then people are really lined all along every single window. There are dozens and dozens of flags. There are six flags on almost every floor of that Lane Bryant building. And then moving down the block as we see it, there are two tremendous flags right opposite the steps of the library building, across the street, going down past 41st toward 42nd Street. More American flags than the British flag and again the American flag. Past 42nd, more American flags all the way down the line. It is really a true tribute to a great leader. These police, who have done a magnificent job in controlling the crowd, which is numbered by some photographers who have had tremendous experience, great experience in the field of covering these tremendously important events, these photographers say that about 20,000 people are assembled on these two blocks, from 42nd Street to 40th Street, and that really is a crowd, and we don't make any pretense to deny that. There are every kind of armed servicemen here. There are WACs and WAVES. There are Marines, both commissioned officers and non-commissioned. There are plenty of soldiers. There's a soldier standing right next to me who's going to take plenty of pictures for the Army. And then there are dozens of photographers with their press tickets proudly displayed, and plenty of hamming going on, a lot of fun. The crowd is very quiet on the hall, though, and taking it all in very calmly. We just saw our WNYC motor car drive by, a big, beautiful Cadillac, carrying Mr. Mike Jablons of the production department, Mr. Novick, the director of the station, who waved to us very happily as they rode by and signaled more or less that General Eisenhower and his party would be along in just a moment. As yet, we haven't seen General Eisenhower's cars. We haven't seen any other cars since that time, and it was about five minutes ago. General Eisenhower of the Army and Mayor F.H. LaGuardia will be in the first car of the procession, and then in the second car, Lieutenant General Walter Bettel-Smith and Grover Whelan will be seated. I'd imagine that they will be open cars so everyone can see them, and I'd imagine, too, that everyone will get a tremendous thrill out of seeing these men. Across the street, little human interest item here, some children couldn't be more than two and a half or three feet high, sneaked through a very tall man's legs to get to the curb, and the police promptly shoved them back right through the man's legs and made them get back in line. But it seems that that tall man was very good-natured, and stepped back and let the children get in front. I see just a bit of paper coming out of the windows now, perhaps from a way up in the very tall buildings overlooking the library. Perhaps they can see the procession coming down. I can from where we're standing, which is about 10 or 15 feet in the air, above the crowd here at the corner, the northwest corner of 40th Street and 5th Avenue. But I believe that perhaps some people can see the troop moving. There's a tremendous dirigible. There's a big dirigible flying right down 5th Avenue, ladies and gentlemen. If I could see the name, I could. It's not a dirigible. I've been corrected by the Army, ladies and gentlemen. It's a blimp. It's a very, very large one, though, and it's attracting the attention of the spectators. Thank you. It seems that from all signals, the troop is coming right now, and we're going to... Mayor Lagardia is sitting right behind him, and the second car follows General Bedell Smith and Grover Whalen. They've just made it the round up here. It's a tremendous crowd lining both ends of the curve. There's just a thin swathe of the 5th Avenue gutter that is open just to permit the parade going through. The whole crowd now is following downtown. We, on the vantage point at 60th Street and 5th Avenue, have to turn around to follow the parade. They're down now at 59th Street, just opposite the stately Dignified Plaza Hotel. The weather is pretty nice now. Even the weather bureau has chipped in to give its cooperation in making it much cooler. There's a northeasterly breeze coming in to make things rather dignified. The Eisenhower entourage has been a little late, and that's been fortunate because we've had a lot of technical difficulty in setting up this line. As a matter of fact, even as I talk to you, I don't know whether we're coming through or not, but in the hopes that we are, we want to thank the telephone people for making that connection just in time. The car has just been held up momentarily. The 25-car motorcade, consisting of closed Packard cars now, that's a rather unusual circumstance, is just about passing the tail end of this reviewing stand right now. As yet, we have not seen our mobile transmitter coming through. They should be right in the center of the procession somewhere, perhaps after the 25th car. At least we hope so. General Eisenhower must be on 58th Street now, completely surrounded by a colorful, thrilling crowd, just standing up and cheering to show General Eisenhower how glad we New Yorkers are to welcome him and have him back. Overhead now is a Navy blimp, which is just about on 58th Street. That blimp has been circling back and forth, waiting the arrival of General Dwight David Eisenhower very impatiently. It looks like a silver cigar standing up. It's turning north now and is almost overhead. There are still cars filled with Army dignitaries coming across the mouth of Central Park. We still have not reached the tail end of the 25-car motorcade. On its way down along 5th Avenue from 60th Street, where we're talking to you, it will emerge from the park and is preceded by a band of Army from the 376th Army Service Unit. We now see our WNYC mobile transmitter just about reaching the edge of the park. I imagine that from here on on 60th Street along 5th Avenue, the motorcade will proceed at a very much slower pace than it has from the airport because the plane was very late in coming in to LaGuardia Airport. Perhaps even at no faster than a march pace in order to see, for New Yorkers to see General Dwight D. Eisenhower and all these returned Army veterans and give a better welcome to the hero of the occasion. Right across us now, a group of about 50 mounted police is bringing up the tail end of this 25-car motorcade, accompanying General Dwight David Eisenhower from LaGuardia Airport through Central Park. He has made his way across the Triborough Bridge to get to this point, down along the East River Drive, cutting into Manhattan, making a salient at 125th Street. And then he consolidated his position, apparently, very rapidly because we were quite surprised to see him come across this point as quickly as he did, even though the parade itself is approximately 25 minutes overdue. We're speaking to you, ladies and gentlemen, from the northwest corner of 40th Street and 5th Avenue, from which point we are now momentarily awaiting the arrival of the motorcade, which is bringing General Eisenhower to City Hall. Maybe there is something in the saying that the last shall be first and the first shall be last because we happen to be in the 25th car of the motorcade, and we arrived here about five minutes ago with police escort to get us down here in time so that we may describe for you the scene as General Eisenhower moves south with to City Hall to be officially greeted there by the city. The throng here in front of the New York Public Library is about 18 deep. People virtually have to fight their way through the crowds to move downtown or across town, and every 15 feet is a police officer. It is absolutely thick with people. Flags of the United States are flying. Flags of Great Britain are flying. And there has been absolutely no rain, and we're still being promised that there will be none. Now, of course, the General's great concern is that baseball game this afternoon, which he is so anxious to see. One motorcycle is moving down the middle of Fifth Avenue, which is absolutely deserted for vehicles with the exception of those of the police department. One other vehicle coming down with red lights on it, and we notice, too, that a blimp of the United States Navy is flying over the motorcade, thus indicating exactly what position they are in. We do know that they are in Central Park, and we are awaiting their emergence from Central Park. And, of course, here down on Fifth Avenue, these buildings, these tall buildings make canyons, and we expect that as soon as the motorcade, which is bearing the General, moves down, that we will see flags waved by the millions of people. Certainly there must be millions of people assembled here up and down Fifth Avenue. And then, of course, that roar, which will come when they finally get a good look at him. We're much closer to the General than we had been out at Ligartia Field, and so are the people which are here. Incidentally, the United States Army Band will lead this parade to 42nd Street, and at 42nd Street, the Police Department Band of the City of New York will take over, and they will provide the music for this motorcade as it moves down to City Hall. There does seem to be some activity up around St. Patrick's Cathedral, which we can see here. There's a police car moving down very slowly. There seems to be a great number of people there that are probably pushing out onto the curb, and as a matter of fact, here we not only have the police dependent upon their good, strong arms, but barriers have been erected with big signs on the police line, Do Not Cross, and they are serving to keep the people back. We have not as yet noticed that any of the buildings which are along Fifth Avenue have been boarded up, which is, of course, conventional when New York celebrates. There does not seem to be the exuberance present at the moment at any rate that there have been on other receptions for noted people when New York has let its hair down and really given out with everything that it has had. However, there's no display of paper as we usually see. Perhaps downtown New York will take care of that, but then, too, a special notice, for example, was told to the people to lay off the paper since that might be an indication to the general that New York City was not cooperating in the paper drive. Oddly enough, we noticed, too, from the newspapers that they did say that they did say that the paper scrap would be picked up tomorrow, so there may be a shower of it later on. Now we understand that we can pick up our mobile truck, which is in the parade, so let's go to Dick Pack. Here we are again, ladies and gentlemen, at the northwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 40th Street. And still, we haven't been able to pick up the truck that we were supposed to. Yes, I'm getting the nod from the control men. They're very, very happy that I got their signal. We're about 40 feet from our control men here. It's a very, very odd affair because control men generally are right next to the announcer or in a control room. But as it appears right now, the control men are on a platform which is on the barrier or behind the barrier of the Fifth Avenue Library. And then we're on a specially built platform which is out on the curb, more or less, and on the corner of the sidewalk that is in the northwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 40th Street in New York. Here's a police car coming down very, very, very slowly. And there comes the Army Band, ladies and gentlemen. I can just see it. I can just barely hear it with my sharp ears. The crowd is starting to get excited, very excited, ladies and gentlemen. They're screaming. Men are jumping on taller men's shoulders. There's a man of about 55 years old who's jumped on a man of 30 years old's shoulders. Children are jumping on their parents' shoulders as well. Here comes another police car. It's coming down a little quicker. Here, several horses bearing policemen are marching up toward the parade from Fifth Avenue. Now they stop at the corner of 42nd and Fifth to stop the crowd from crossing. The crowd was trying to get out into the middle of the street to see the parade. And of course, the police very capably, very ably, and very efficiently put that crowd back. The Army Band is coming down very slowly. We can see it. We can hardly, hardly hear it because now the crowd is making a little more noise than it had in the past. We're going to hold the microphone here and we hope that we can give you the sound of the truck of the band from in just a moment. And now here's Joe Hassel who's going to give you the rest of the broadcast of the proceedings on Fifth Avenue. Thank you very much. The band is now moving down and as you were told, there was that element of excitement which suddenly rang through the crowd as they finally realized that General Eisenhower was but a short distance away. The band is moving at a parade speed of about two miles per hour and the first time analysis was made that it would take them one minute to pass each block and that of course means that New Yorkers will have a chance to get a really good look at General Eisenhower. The parade is now at about 45th Street. The head of the parade is now at about 45th Street and the police car has just come down to notify all of the officers here and the men of the police department to keep the crowd back. And I can tell you one thing, that as soon as this open spot which is here in front of the public library as soon as the crowd gets a look at the General you can be sure that a terrific roar will be going up. Joe, may I say just a word please? It's been pointed out to me by our Army photographer standing alongside of us that there's a discharged Army veteran who possibly was, probably was wounded in action. He's wearing braces on his legs and he's been helped to a little platform which is built in front of the library. He's been helped there by several men so that he can see his General Ike pass. I think that is a human interest point in itself. Well that's right. There are a great many men in uniform that are stationed here since many of the Army Service Force units are around here but many of these men have come over and many of the men are of course back in the United States on rotation here officers too who do want to get a look at this general who did such a terrific job in Europe. There has been no cascading of, now there is from one of the buildings cascades, a flurry of paper the buildings are dotted and lined with the employees as you know the City of New York has given its employees half a day off and all of the stores along 5th Avenue and Broadway have declared a half holiday for their employees so that they might come out here and see General Ike. Now the parade is moving up to 42nd Street. The mounted police of the New York City Department have now approached 42nd Street. We're facing directly at them with the motorcade strings out for many, many blocks and then we can see the crowd closing in from behind as New York goes back to its normal daily life. Here come some more motorcycles that have gone by paper cascading from the French building on the east side. The horse is prancing around now as the music of the Army band reaches them and now we're waiting to see this maneuver which will see the police department take over and escort General Ike further downtown. We would say that this parade which is now running 16 minutes behind schedule it was very carefully timed out but bad weather from Washington to New York delayed the C-54 transport plane of General Ike's and he arrived about 16 minutes late at LaGuardia Field and of course all times have been moved up 16 minutes. There was no effort to make up any time from LaGuardia Field to New York so that the people might get a real good look at this general. Now here is the head of the police motor the police cavalry and the horses are prancing all around and as you can hear the hubbub in the background indicates that the general is getting pretty close so that the crowd might get a look at him and we see youngsters jumping up and down in back of people and they're about 15 deep then there's the sidewalk people are now climbing all over the shrubbery and the grass of the public library then on the steps of the public library and other crowds and the leading horse is just jumping all over the place as he can barely hear the music and now I'm sure that in the background you can hear the clicks of the cameras the newsreel machines as they take photographs of this cortege as it moves down upon us. This motorcade is now moving in closely and you can hear the applause from the people as the horses prance out in the middle of 5th Avenue. Well if you think that the first horse is really dancing you should see the last one there's two of them back there that are doing every version of anything that any horse might dance to and now even more of them and these horses are moving very smartly very sprightly and it is Police Cavalry A and in the background we can hear the army band and we assume that the police department band will take over and many many people are now climbing up on this platform so that they might get a good look at General Ike you can hear the clatter of the horse's hooves as it beats on 5th Avenue and here is the color guard of the police cavalry with the American flag and the city of New York flag and here now comes troop B of the city mounted police and the crowd is getting a great thrill out of this horse that we mentioned in the last line he's in the middle he is dancing sideways he is prancing all over the place really having himself a good time these horses are being held very much in check and one who is being held very tightly is all lathered in white now the parade very slowly moves up and the police department band has taken over and are now escorting General Ike Eisenhower there is quite a gap between the police cavalry a gap of about one gap and then the band which is moving down and you can hear the applause and you can see the people waving now and cheering in the distance and General Ike is about two blocks away from us the head of the parade has gone by there is a gap of one box and then we have the police department band which is moving up and if you hear here in the background the banging around of a microphone that is people that are jumping up here and bouncing it around because the footing which we have is not too secure well here comes the police department band the yells and let's see if we can pick up the music here's that draw for Eisenhower you want to see him why he's just as American as anything could possibly be he's standing up in the car waving one hand to the crowd in front of the library listen to them yell and cheer at him and then he turns around and faces the other side and he holds his hands high over his head just as a fighter who's won a terrific fight and he has then he salutes to the crowd and he waves to them and everybody's just cheering and yelling at him what a tremendous personality this man has and he waves and he's got that Eisenhower grin and he salutes over here listen to the roar for him here he is General Ike and he's just cheering yelling and laughing and he whistles back at the crowd and here he comes he salutes over a magnetic personality as he whistles and waves to everybody and General Ike just listen to the roar here he is the General waves and yells and has a great time for himself there and golly he is tremendous with six rows of ribbons on his chest the Distinguished Service Cross with two Oakleaf clusters and he faces everybody he's laughing his head off having a tremendous time he has now hit 40th Street and he moves slowly down and the crowd just loves it and they love the way he's waving to them and saluting and shaking his hands over his head as he moves down he holds his left hand up now as he waves to the far side of the street and people are yelling and jumping out in front to take pictures of and he's waving again to the crowd as he's moving now south below 40th Street the police everybody's laughing the mayor just sits there very stardardly enjoying himself because Eisenhower is enjoying himself and now the motorcade has hit down to 39th Street and apparently the tempo has moved up just a little bit and the crowd starts to walk downtown to see if they possibly may not have another look at him the motorcade has slightly stepped up since it has passed here the public library but I'm sure it'll have to take something tremendous downtown to overcome that terrific roar which went up as he passed the library now he is standing again with his hands high over his head waving with his hands over his head and again he just keeps turning in the car waving yelling saluting laughing out loud he really is enjoying himself and he's getting a tremendous ovation from these people here in New York which I believe up to now the time the total is from 2 to 3 million that are seeing him the greatest people the greatest mass of people ever in New York City to welcome anyone now the motorcade has moved down to 38th Street and we return you to our studios we're going to try to contact City Hall and now we take you to City Hall and Tommy Cowan well City Hall is certainly one of the biggest parties that ever was witnessed any time in the history of receptions here at City Hall today and it looks as though Mayor Lagarde his entire civic family of 7.5 million people have come out to City Hall to thoroughly enjoy the festivities the weatherman has been sort of on the fence but he's stayed off from now without any bad symptoms it's interesting to see so many of our official family that used to be around City Hall here in naval uniforms I see Clendenin Ryan Gene Tunney just created quite a stir as he arrived with Mr. and Mrs. Tunney well if I started giving you famous names I'd do nothing but repeat names that are famous in the fields of accomplishment Harry Hirschfield is standing there waving to friends well that's the way it goes Ann Morgan is sitting here and a great many others of course representatives of the Army Navy, Marine Corps and all the various services the Army band has just arrived very wearily from its part of the festivities and they're taking their places now we're going to have a fine musical program immediately after the arrival of General Eisenhower and the formalities he sits down we'll hear Igor Gorin we'll hear Marian Anderson of course singing the anthem James Melton Gordon Heath and we also have the Police Glee Club furnishing the music elements as well in the brief interlude of music before the formalities and speeches begin this huge audience will enjoy all of this here at City Hall and then the Mayor of the City of New York in this proudest moment of his life will present the Medal of the City of New York the honors of the city and the best wishes of course there'll be a little time for cheering those elements will have to be absorbed in the regular schedules but a very very interesting program indeed has been arranged for you and the Mayor has been very successful indeed in arranging this party the arrangements are well-nigned perfect everybody seems happy the Police and Fire Department have combined and keeping everybody happy and smiling and imitating the Police and Fire Department everybody is doing just exactly that now Joe how much time do you want here is Joe Fishley doing anything keep on going well the Police Department has made almost perfect arrangements and the Army Band is getting settled now there's the kids have started the cheering gallery over here to one side and really the skyscrapers around the City Hall area here remind you of the San Carlo Opera some of the Metropolitan Opera House and one of the great amphitheaters of the world as the various storied facades of the skyscrapers represent as we might say boxes at a theater and they are certainly loaded with people the lower roofs that undeveloped piece of property there between Park Place and Murray Street is really in a great advantage because the buildings there haven't gone so high and the roofs there are absolutely crowded the subway of course the original little subway that curls under City Hall is more or less closed off now because I guess you couldn't get out of it if you tried but I wouldn't say that because if it's an exit the police are taking care of that in a regular way so that if you're a passenger and you got a ticket you come to the party if you haven't got a ticket you have to keep moving out until you can get to the vantage place somewhere in this immense crowd it's really an amazing sight we were testing the microphones a little while ago to make sure that the loudspeakers were working perfectly that the dew and other atmospheres and the light rain of last night didn't damage any of the connections in any way because we know water can create a great deal of a damage in electrical apparatus it's all been tested out it works fine but as we stood up in the exact spot where General Eisenhower will stand it's perfectly amazing this sight you really I think General Eisenhower will have one of the greatest thrills of his life as he stands in this focal point here in front of City Hall and looks out on this sea of faces and it is veritably a sea and if he doesn't believe it's a sea there's enough admirals sailors, commanders and all other members of the armed forces participating to make it seem like a real ocean voyage itself the men the wounded soldiers and sailors and marines that have been brought in from the various hospitals who occupy vantage points here at the mayor's reception they certainly created a sensation when they came in and they got a heart feeling welcome from the immense crowd here they certainly must feel happy and appreciated even though they are incapacitated by their great experience in the war emergencies all these things go to make up a cross section of the entire world the embassies the consuls are all represented here at City Hall and the mayor is certainly bearing out all his hard work of the previous few days in arranging this party of course the burden of it falls primarily on the police department because it's a tremendous responsibility not only to have so many people gather in front of City Hall but to actually seat them in comfort as you would at a theater or any other place where a great spectacle is in progress yet the mayor has carried this plan out very beautifully and there's no doubt about it there's countless thousands of happy people that will tell their children and their children's children about this wonderful day in front of City Hall when the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia welcomed and brought to General Eisenhower the best wishes and acclaim of the great city over which he presides there's no doubt about it there's only one New York that isn't chauvinistic it just means that we're here we know what it all means and it's a wonderful privilege well now I don't want to take all the time we send you back now to Nat Rudick and Master Control well this is Nat Rudick speaking to you from the top of the municipal building where our studios are located from this vantage point we can see overlook completely City Hall Park and Plaza it's really a thrilling sight from here since we see all the people sitting in the plaza well I'm not a judge but I imagine it must be at least 30,000 to 40,000 people sitting that doesn't take into consideration the people that are lining all the sidewalks along Broadway and stretching down into the canyon past St. Paul's Church the site from here as you look down to the crowd sitting in the plaza is a strange one you see the multicolored dresses and hats that people are wearing it looks like a pinpoint some type of a print almost like a patchwork quilt with all these various colors and we hear from up here the sound of the band playing the sound of the band playing in front of City Hall itself back of City Hall there is a a large court building those of you who know City Hall Park know that the large court building immediately back of City Hall and back of that along Chambers Street there are 23 24 staff cars lined up army staff cars with army personnel waiting alongside the cars what they're to be used for we don't know but there are 24 of them making a good fleet of cars along a broad way there are people milling about I imagine must be 15 and 16 deep people 15 and 16 deep from the sidewalk down to the street and all along as at the other points of along the march there are policemen who are keeping the crowds back the traffic the traffic is still running up and down broadway they haven't closed the traffic from there at all along broadway there are the windows incidentally in the Wilworth building and the building next to it immediately next to it south of it completely filled with people every window every window is filled with at least one or two people some of the terraces as these buildings go higher you know the terraces recede as they go up and on these terraces there are people also very very beautifully dressed with all these colors that we can see from here it's really a very colorful sight the building on the corner of Chambers Street and Broadway at the very top the terraces have around them they've built up fences wooden fences around these terraces so the people that are on the terraces won't fall over we assume what they're there for all the buildings that we can see from here at this point we are at the highest point in the park along the park that is all the buildings are flying flags and right now immediately over City Hall Park a plane a four-motored plane is flying over the park the band has stopped playing down there now we will return you now to our studio for a roundup of news and then try to contact our truck which is in the procession and try to bring in a description of them as they come down 14th Street and go east but until that time here's some news with Fred Handrich taking it all right Fred come on in Fred Handrich all right here's a roundup for the latest world news General Eisenhower's cavalcade as you've been hearing now is moving through the streets of New York to the cheers of the city millions the metropolis is gay with the stars and stripes flying in a refreshing breeze the motor parade expects to reach City Hall at about noon for the official welcome by Mayor LaGuardia the mayor of course was waiting at the field which bears his name when Eisenhower's C-54 appeared in the gray skies a taxi to a stop precisely at 10-12 a.m. and New York's Mayor LaGuardia rushed up as soon as he saw the famous Eisenhower grin and said the admiration of seven and one half million people is extended to you General Eisenhower the general shook hands and murmured his thanks and then while the band played flourishes and the generals marched the mayor escorted General Light to the official automobile and the motorcade began its 35 mile trip well the nation is saluting General Eisenhower today with the full realization that Japan remains to be beaten as thoroughly as was Germany this sober understanding is underscored by two dispatches of bad news from the Pacific the death of Lieutenant General Simon Buckner Jr. and the loss of the destroyer minesweeper Emmons the Emmons was sunk by sister ships 12 hours after five Jap suicide planes crashed into her off Okinawa 59 men went down on the Emmons 78 were wounded in the attack and two were missing the Emmons was one of the ships which formed the escort for the convoy which took President Roosevelt across the Atlantic for his meeting with Starling Ed Terran in November of 1943 the Emmons died fighting she shot down six of the 12 planes which opened the attack on her on Okinawa American fighting men are mourning the loss of the commander of the 10th Army General Buckner's funeral was held at a beach where the first troops went ashore on Easter morning and today troops lined the dusty road as the general's plain wooden casket was borne to the 7th Division Cemetery his aide Major General Frank Hubbard Jr. of Des Moines said Buckner was smiling when the jab burst came and the smile remained on his face in death well here's some good news from the Pacific the Navy Department announces that American submarines have sunk 11 more Japanese ships including two light warships this brings the submarine bag up to 1153 enemy ships sunk since Pearl Harbor in Europe today King Leopold of Belgium has announced that he has no intention of giving up his throne a statement of Salzburg Austria quotes the king as saying that he is assumed as full constitutional prerogatives two of the king's agents are in Belgium at present conferring with government leaders who may step out of office as soon as the monarch sets foot on his native soil dispatches from Brussels declares that strikes and protests against the king's return to Belgium have spread to the coal region of Liège the trial of the 16 Poles has entered its second day in Moscow the deputy premier of the London Polish regime has taken the stand and after prolonged questioning from the Soviet Union presiding judge said that he received hostile directives from the exiled Polish regime in London the first witnesses today was a Polish journalist who said the Polish underground considered the Red Army an enemy in Denmark ships are being loaded by men who have their heart in the task the ships are to carry 600 tons of butter and 200 tons of eggs to Great Britain that food is to be exchanged for coal it inaugurates peaceful trading in sharp contrast to the Nazis method of just taking what they wanted which of course was practically everything and that's the latest world news and this is the municipal broadcasting system your city station continuing its policy of giving the greatest possible service to New York City listeners we are bringing you complete coverage of the parade and demonstrations in honor of General Dwight D. Eisenhower in addition to broadcasting ceremonies through the day with eyewitness stories at 8 this evening we will bring you in recording sections of the welcomes which our great American hero received in the capital cities of London and Paris as well as a repeat broadcast of the most interesting portions of New York City celebration and then at 10 p.m. due to the fact that the FCC has granted your city station extra air time in order that we might carry everything taking place on this momentous day we will bring you the address of General Eisenhower from the Waldorf Astoria Hotel so for the most complete coverage of today's long to be remembered ceremonies keep tuned to New York City's own station WNYC WNYC FM well here we go to City Hall again come in Joe Fishler good morning fellow New Yorkers this is Joe Fishler speaking to you from historic City Hall Plaza the scene of so much brilliant pageantry and so many colorful receptions as you know this June 19th of the year 1945 has been designated by Mayor LaGuardia as Eisenhower Day to honor the hero of the Western European theater of war Tommy Cowan a little earlier this morning I think told you something about the color that is to be seen here in City Hall Plaza this morning a special platform has been erected in the shape of the prow of a landing craft infantry an LCI to commemorate the landing on the Normandy beachhead flanking both the east and west sides of the prow are the stands which are occupied by prominent civic and government representatives as well as high-ranking army and navy officials just south of the receiving stand there has been set aside a reserved section for very prominent guests who are on hand to welcome and to honor General Dwight David Eisenhower here this morning in City Hall as Mayor LaGuardia told you during his talk to the people on Sunday last at 1 o'clock some 40,000 odd seats have been placed on the sward which is that of City Hall Park City Hall Park of course bounded on the north by City Hall itself on the east by Park Row flanked by the old world and herald buildings and on the west by Broadway with its historic Woolworth building down at the southern end of City Hall Park of course you may remember a few years back the old post office building which is now located one block west down on Church Street and down at the far end also is historic St. Paul's Church past which the general and his party will be coming in some 15 or 20 minutes from now I believe Tommy Cowan has described to you some of the very many interesting things that have happened since the crowd began pouring in at approximately a quarter of nine this morning a compliment of some 300 veterans of the European theater came in at approximately 10.30 or 25 minutes of 11 and they were greeted with sustained applause and the cheers of the some estimated 80,000 people gathered here in the plaza either seated or standing on Park Row and Broadway then Commander Gene Tunney made his appearance and he created quite a furore all that is lacking of course is for Commander Jack Dempsey to make his appearance and we could probably have a little set to between the two branches of the service which they represent now the sanitation department band under the direction of John Celebray is playing over on the east side of the receiving stand and until there through we think we'll give you a little bit of the colorful music which has been played for us here all morning after which we'll try and trace for you a brief description of the back history of City Hall and some of the many colorful receptions that have been given here ever since City Hall was created in 1824 here's the sanitation department band John Celebray conducting of course ever since General Eisenhower's arrival at LaGuardia Airport you've been kept abreast of his progress across the Triborough Bridge through Central Park down Fifth Avenue and across 14th Street to the East River Drive then down to the Battery and very shortly north on Broadway you've been told about the plans which have been made for his entertainment while the guest of the world's largest city plans which include lunch with Mayor LaGuardia at the Mayor's House his attendance at America's National Pastime of Baseball at the Polo Grounds with the Giants and Boston Braves and the official dinner and reception at the Waldorf this evening ever since his arrival in Washington yesterday this General of the Army the Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Expeditionary Forces and the European Theater of War has been on the official go parade and reception in Washington yesterday an address to Congress his flight here to New York and now all this but New York knows how to greet its heroes and is going all out to make General Eisenhower stay in this metropolis a warm though probably tiring one and now the Second Services Army Command Band stationed at Fort J is playing here on the west side of the plaza so let's listen to some of this colorful music there podea Thank you. Thank you. David Eisenhower, the son of pioneer Americans, was born in Tyler, Texas, but calls Abilene, Kansas, home. And it's home and to mother the general goes within a couple of days. If one needs seek a reason for anything, here probably lies the answer to the vigor and stamina of this great American general. His ancestry of pioneer blood, his early upbringing as a typical athletic young American boy, his own love of sport and the great outdoors, all helped to make of him Ike Eisenhower, the man, the old iron striker, the general of the army whom we're honoring today in the rousing way New York and its seven and a half millions of inhabitants have learned over the years to give. But as we honor this man who led the Allied armies to victory in Western Europe, let's not forget that he's but the symbol of the millions of young men, the GIs, who put weary and sore in mud and rain and snow and cold and heat, executed the orders issued by Eisenhower and passed on to them by their immediate commanding officers. And let's remember, too, that while the war in Europe is over, while our war-weary fighters are even now being repatriated, millions of others of our boys are fighting desperately in the Pacific in a war of attrition against a cruel and cunning fighter, a fighter desperate in the knowledge that defeat is certain, yet unwilling to give up in unconditional surrender, committing harakiri in the name of the emperor, fanatics who feel that in death lies their great happiness. This is the Jap. Let's not discount his fighting ability. Our boys on Okinawa have learned from bitter experience and, unfortunately, too many casualties, that the Jap is not to be belittled. Rather, he is to be treated as a courageous, though ill-advised fighter. And until the end of hostilities against Japan, let's do what we can to help the officers and men who are doing the fighting. Let's all pitch in, buy bonds, give blood, and help in the various ways which stay-at-homes have at their command. Now, once again, the sanitation department band, commanded by John Celebrity, is playing over on the east side of the plaza, and here is that music. Arich The End The End The End Thanks Joe Fishley Here I am back up at the top of the municipal building The highest point of vantage The highest point that we could possibly find To be able to talk to you And describe the picture of What City Hall Plaza looks like As it is from this point Looking down at the plaza They have closed off the traffic now In a long broad way Leading down into the canyon The Heroes Canyon as we've gotten to call it After so many Heroes marched up it Through the ticket tape, etc What I can see from here is this Along Park Row There's one last car That's finally moving through Now the gap has been taken up by people Coming through the side streets All along the side streets It's all jammed up All of Park Row is jammed up There are a great number of trucks and buses Jammed up in there too They've been stopped There are trucks A few cabs They've been stopped They can't get into Broadway That's all been closed off now Down by St. Paul's Church Just two blocks down from the Woolworth building There are two bulges of people Out on Broadway In other words The police haven't been able to keep the crowd under control Haven't been able to keep them back along the sidewalk What's happened down there probably is People coming up VZ Street Have just emptied out onto Broadway And have filled Broadway There are two or three police cars down there Trying to get the people back up to the sidewalk Because there's just enough room for one car to go through at that point I don't think the police want that kind of a condition to exist or remain They're really trying to get those people back without any luck Now the people are coming up from Broadway Coming down from Broadway All people, great throngs of them Are coming down Broadway Filling in Chambers Street now So that no one can possibly get through To walk up Broadway From Chambers Street up It's all closed off now in there The whole park now is completely Studded with people The place is completely packed with people Sitting on the chairs that you know are there The 40,000 seats That's all filled And the people are jamming all the streets along the sides Those people who are standing along the sides Will later on be able to hear the general speak When the mayor presents them with the medal of the city of New York Because we have our loudspeaker system The municipal broadcasting loudspeaker system All set so that everyone can hear from all No matter where they stand along the park All around the triangle of the park Now the roofs of all the buildings are beginning to fill in With the multicolored costumes The people are starting to come out of their offices And fill in the roofs and all the windows Down on Park Row we can see two ambulances That is there are two Red Cross wagons there Probably to take care of anyone that Well any trouble that they have to take care of There's nothing else to describe from up here As I told you the place now is literally jam-packed with people No cars can go through Up Broadway, down Broadway Cannot possibly come down Broadway Because the police have formed a cordon With 15, oh 15, 20 deep People 15, 20 deep All along the I hear fire engines I don't know what that means I think what we'll do is send it back to City Hall and Joe Fishler How about City Hall? Send it back to Joe Fishler Fishler, come on in There's Joe Fishler at City Hall once again ladies and gentlemen I think that on this occasion It might be interesting to trace the history of New York City Hall The first building was the Stadthuis at number 73 Pearl Street A stone building erected in 1642 At the expense of the West India Company And first used as a warehouse and tavern In 1653 when the Berger government was established The tavern was converted into the City Hall That was the first building The second building begun in 1699 and completed in 1703 Stood on the northeast corner of Nassau and Wall Street And occupied the site of what is now the Sub-Treasury building It was not only the seat of municipal government But also of the provisional government Or the provincial government rather When the state legislature met in New York And also of the federal government During the first few years after the inauguration of Washington As first president of the United States Washington having been inaugurated In that second building The cornerstone of the third and present City Hall Was laid by Mayor Edward Livingston on May 26th, 1803 When City Hall Park was on the outskirts of the city It was formally dedicated on May 5th, 1812 Although the Common Council met there as early as August 12th of the previous year Of course, you've all noticed that the style is that of the Italian Renaissance But you may not know the dimensions of the building 216 feet wide, 105 feet deep The south, east and west sides are of Stockbridge marble While the north side is of brownstone Among its historic chambers is the Governor's Room So-called because of its collection of portraits of governors And other distinguished citizens In this room may also be seen the chair In which Washington was inaugurated first president of the United States The desk on which he penned his first message to Congress Several of the chairs used by the first Congress And brought from the second City Hall A portrait of Washington woven in silk A bust of Henry Clay The battle flags of the 1st New York Regiment And a part of Peter Stavison's famous pear tree Among the historic associations of City Hall Park Was the reading of the Declaration of Independence To the American Army here assembled on July 9th, 1776 An event commemorated by a tablet on the south front of the building Just a few feet away from where I'm standing now President Lincoln's body lay here in state in 1865 After his assassination On August 16th, 1824 When William Paulding was mayor Lafayette was received here After a brilliant reception at the Battery And some ceremonies at Castle Garden Which most of us knew as the Aquarium And which of course no longer exists Having been torn down for the approaches to the Brooklyn Tunnel In August of 1858 The laying of the Atlantic Cable Was celebrated by an illumination of City Hall From which the building caught on fire The front was blackened with smoke And the windows remained boarded up for a long time In 1860, Albert Edward, then Prince of Wales Was received here In more recent years, Edward Prince of Wales The King and Queen of the Belgians Marshal Geoff General John J. Pershing Who was visited yesterday in Washington By General Eisenhower Charles A. Lindbergh, Marie of Romania And many other notables have been received In this most historic spot on Manhattan Island Tommy Cowan did, I believe At about 17 minutes past 11 o'clock Bring you a description Of the many colorful receptions Which he himself has either broadcast Or witnessed Here at City Hall Since he became connected With the Municipal Broadcasting System stations Now we've just been informed That the General and his party Are down near the battery Which means that they should be up here In City Hall Plaza In approximately 10 minutes As you know The General of the Army Dwight David Eisenhower Has been traveling from Europe To Washington From Washington to New York With a party of 53 officers and men One of these being a private first class Many of these officers and men Are natives of some of our central Central western states Particularly Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa And Missouri Some of the top ranking officers Having their headquarters in Washington Dwight David Eisenhower A typical American An American of originally German ancestry Whose name was spelled Somewhat differently From what it is today Yet today A member A descendant Of a pioneer American family A family Which is rich in tradition Which has always Feared and trusted God Loved its country And upheld its flag That is the man We're honoring here today Along the route of March Or of the motorcade And of course Here in City Hall Plaza Now at 12 o'clock noon We are supposed to join With several independent stations To bring you the actual reception ceremonies Here in the plaza When Mayor LaGuardia Will present General Eisenhower With a special gold medal Struck in his honor The medal of the city Inscribed by President Nicholas Murray Butler Of Columbia University And which has been worked out By Tiffany's And the general Will at the same time Be made an honorary citizen Of this The greatest city In the world Now we've just received The information That the motorcade Bearing General Eisenhower And the entire members Of his party All the members Of his party As well as The receiving committee Has just passed Manhattan Bridge The next bridge Of course Being the Brooklyn Bridge Which is just opposite From where we're standing now They're traveling down The East River Drive Which finally gets Into South Street Down South Street Around the Battery And up Broadway Which has seen So very many colorful Parades in the past And for many years past Now you can probably hear In the background The boat whistles Which I imagine Are blowing As the general Is passing down The East River Drive Now until such time As they've rounded South Ferry And they've entered Broadway To travel north Past Trinity Wall Street The Financial District And St. Paul's Past the Woolworth Building And then to the north end Of City Hall itself And the Plaza We're returning you To our studios And Nat Rudig Hello this is Nat Rudig Speaking to you again Thank you Joe Fishler We're up at the As I told you before At the top of the Municipal Building And from here As I said before We can see all the way down Into the canyon Down past St. Paul's Church We will return it To Joe Fishler From City Hall So that he may Give you a description As it comes Up past St. Paul's And it passes As the procession Passes the Woolworth Building We've been informed That the motorcade Has gone down The East River Drive Is now approaching South Ferry It should be there Within a matter of seconds From up here We've seen a number Of preparations being made Back of City Hall Immediately back Of City Hall There are approximately That is in the park Cars parked Within the park Approximately 15 of them We've been given To understand That the General's cars Will not Come through the plaza As a matter of fact They can't come through The plaza Because there are seats Completely in front Of the City Hall And taking up The whole plaza The truck The cars that the General And his party Are coming in Will come around Through the back On Chambers Street Come up a slight ramp That has been built The cars will go Into the park Back of City Hall Plaza And the General Will retire To the Mayor's office In City Hall Plaza In City Hall And from there He will be escorted Out to the platform In front of City Hall For a description For the ovation Of the crowd At 12 noon Many of the boats In the harbor Did sound their horns Their horns Making a bit of a clatter Down in the lower part Of the river Now I hear Coming all the way up here The sounds of the crowd Evidently The cars Here's the first motorcycle Coming up Broadway Passing St. Paul's We can hear the crowd All the way up here Hear the other motorcycles Now if Joe Fishler Is ready I'd like to have him describe Those things coming up Well Joe Joe isn't ready He can't see any of this And I can There are motorcycles There are all 15, 20, 25 motorcycles Coming up Broadway I This might have been A false alarm The crowds are now Pushing out into Broadway They're being held back By the cops By the policemen They're having a Difficult time of it Holding the crowd back There are a number of White uniformed Shaw patrolmen That I can see from here They're assisting the policemen Down at that point This is immediately Above St. Paul's That is in the block Between St. Paul's And the Woolworth building Where the greatest mob is That is out into the street Now here there's another Wave of applause Coming up from the mob Down in the In the plaza No it was It seemed to have been A false alarm They haven't come up The canyon yet The famous Heroes Canyon Someone must be talking Down in the city hall Plaza over the PA system We can hear The voice But we can't distinguish Who it is Nor can we tell you Who it is Since we can't see The platform In front of city hall The crowd is quieted down Someone is singing At city hall Let's see whether We can't bring in city hall Is it possible To bring in city hall Joe Fishler At city hall now Someone is singing God bless America All right Joe Fishler Would you come in And tell us Who's singing down there And then send it back Back up to me here So I can describe them As they come up City hall park Once again Ladies and gentlemen And although the ceremonies Have not begun Lucy monroe is already In the prow of the lci Or the simulated lci And is singing God bless america As we can hear Down at the far end Of city hall park The bands Which precede The motorcade Of general eisenhower His party And the reception committee But let's listen To lucy monroe And some 80,000 people Gathered here In city hall park Singing god bless america As a greeting To general eisenhower As he makes his way Past old st paul Hello I can see it From up here As lucy monroe Is singing down there There's this tremendous Crowd of noise Of the crowd There are a hundred Motorcycles Coming up Now eisenhower's car Has passed st paul's The crowd is Going wild There's all this noise That we can hear up here We can see the ticket Tape coming down We can see all this Paper being Floating in the air Coming down Bedecking the cars As it comes up I'm going to return It to joe fishler now And lucy monroe Singing god bless america Come in joe fishler They can't come in Well i guess you can't Hear anything from down there All you can hear is sound There i can see I can see the The general standing up In his car waving both arms Standing up in his car Waving both arms Waving his arms At everybody along All sides of the street Here's joe fishler Come in joe The forces in europe He's just passed the west end Of city hall plaza On broadway Making his way to the north side Of city hall From which point he'll make his entrance Accompanied by mayor lagardia His entire staff The 53 members of his party Who have accompanied him Who flown over from europe Who were received yesterday In washington And the official reception Will be made in just a few moments But now ladies and gentlemen Igor Gordon To sing the song of the united nations The sun and the stars All are ringing With song rising strong from the air The hope of humanity singing A hymn to a new world and birth United nations on the march With flecks and fur Together fight for victory A new free world Together fight for victory A new free world Thunder active Thunder ngườiıll Thunder Oh, my God. It's the morning and the rivers go down to the sea. A new day for mankind is dawning. Our children shall live proud and free. United Nations on the march with flecks and fur. Together fight for victory, a new free war. Together fight for victory, a new free war. Were there? He called the ghoul. Gordon has just sung the hymn of the United Nations. Dwight David Eisenhower, General Like, the smiling iron striker, is in the mayor's office at the present moment, surrounded by his aides, his party, the members of the reception committee, Mayor F.H. LaGuardia, Grover Whalen, the chairman of the reception committee for Eisenhower Day. In just a moment, they'll be walking out of the mayor's office, into the lobby, out into the front, the column flanked stairways of City Hall, and onto the simulated trow of the landing craft infantry, commemorating the Normandy beachhead. General Dwight David Eisenhower, General of the Army, Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in the European Theater of War, back home to receive the acclaim, which is the just award and the just reward to all brave men, to all heroes. General Eisenhower, however, himself has said that he is but the symbol of the many millions of GIs who've plodded through mud and snow and rain and sun and heat and cold, who've really won the victory in the European Theater, and who today in the Pacific Theater, under the command of General MacArthur, are now winning their fight against the other enemy, the brutal Japanese. We must remember that while we are saluting today General Eisenhower, the 53 members of his party, officers and men, including one private first class, we must keep up our purchases of war bonds. We must keep giving blood and blood plasma for the men who are still fighting in the far Pacific. Their need is great, and it is only with our help that they can win this other half of the great fight. Mrs. Eisenhower, flanked by women members of the city police department, making her way down in front of the speaker's stand. You know, New Yorkers are openly warm-hearted, but there are stubborn people, seven and a half million very stubborn people. For days now, they've been asked not to shower the streets with paper, with ticker tape, or particularly with the new telephone books, which were just issued a few days ago by the telephone company. And there's a rather vivid warning issued by the telephone company. If you've torn that phone book up in order to throw the paper out from the windows, you will simply have to do without a phone book until the next issue is sent out to subscribers. And as the sanitation department band, under the direction of John Salabri, plays over on the east side of the speaker's stand, the members of Eisenhower's party, his aide-de-camp, are making their way out, taking their places in the official greeting stands. And in just a moment or two, we shall welcome, and you will undoubtedly hear, the tremendous welcome which will be given to General Ike, the smiling iron striker, as he makes his way out, accompanied by Mayor LaGuardia and Grover Whalen, high-ranking army and navy personnel, and representatives of government and civic organizations. We've been here since approximately 10.25 this morning, although networks and independent station engineers had their equipment set up since about 6.15 this morning. And I understand from those early arrivals that there were some even earlier arrivals here in City Hall Park. There were some 42,000 seats placed on the sward here in the park flanked by Old Park Row, Broadway, and Old St. Paul's down at the southern end. 40,000 general admission seats and 2,000 reserved seats. They've all been fully occupied, of course, as they were warned to occupy them before 11 o'clock. Otherwise, those seats could not be held for any special reservations. Park Row and Broadway are jammed solid with probably an equal, if not greater, number of people than is the park itself. So that we have roughly estimated in our not-too-knowledgeable way that there must be some 80 to 90,000 people gathered here to welcome the returning conqueror, General of the Army, Dwight David Eisenhower. We're still awaiting the arrival of General Eisenhower and Mayor LaGuardia, who are still in the Mayor's office. It is very easily understandable, of course, that General Eisenhower should be feeling the weight of the trip that he began yesterday in Washington and which he will complete in a couple of days when he returns home and to his mother in Abilene, Kansas. Yesterday, he and his party paraded to Congress along an eight-mile route after their arrival at the airport. General Eisenhower spoke briefly to the joint session of Congress and told them then that the GI himself felt that there was a way of bringing the Germans around to our way of thinking and that we would very definitely have to do it and soon. After the reception by the joint session of Congress yesterday in Washington, General Eisenhower and his party, his official party, rested up briefly, left Washington early this morning and, although slightly delayed by rather bad flying weather, arrived at the LaGuardia Municipal Airport shortly after 10 10. That arrival was, of course, described to you by Joe Hassel, now a member of Uncle Sam's Army, formerly a member of the announcing staff of several of the stations here in New York City. We've heard him announcing baseball and football, and we have been very happy indeed to have received permission, or for Joe Hassel to have received permission, to be with us on this historic occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the roar from the crowd as everybody is standing. And here is the bugle call announcing the arrival of General Eisenhower. A bugle call which was slightly premature by the Army Band station at Fort Jay. Now we're still awaiting the actual bugle call and the ruffles, which will greet General Eisenhower on his way. To take his place on the speaker stand, which, as we mentioned before, was built to simulate the crowd of an LCI, a landing craft infantry commemorating the Normandy Beachhead. The roar from the crowd is still going on, but the official bugle call and ruffles for General Eisenhower have not been announced. And until they have been announced, the General, of course, will not make his official appearance, that being part of the protocol, not only of the diplomatic corps, but also of high-ranking Army and Navy officials. Robert Whalen is on stage with the commanding officers of the Second Service Command, Major General Terry, Admiral Leahy, Lieutenant General Terry, Lieutenant Colonel, or Colonel, I should say, Arthur V. McDermott, the Director of Selective Service for New York City. The Army Band station at Fort Jay is just waiting for the signal now for the bugle call and ruffles for General Eisenhower. I think the reason for the delay is that they're waiting for the sanitation band under the direction of John Celebrity to stop playing the piece. And now here is the bugle call announcing the arrival of General Dwight David Eisenhower, the Iron Striker General of the Army, Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Expeditionary Forces. Here is the bugle calls. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 80,000 people to greet Dwight David Eisenhower, and here is Mayor LaGuardia. Be sung by Miss Marian Anderson. Thank you. Thank you. Oh say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed, of the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the peril of the peril of the night, The perilous flight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the road that's right The boundaries in the air Keep proof through the night Though the flag was still there The perilous flight The perilous flight The perilous flight O'er the ramparts we watched O'er the ramparts we watched O'er the ramparts we watched O'er the ramparts we watched Mayor LaGuardia has just announced James Melton Off we go into the wild blue yonder Climbing high into the sun Here they come Zooming to meet our thunder At a voice, give her the gun Down we dive Spouting our flame from under Off with one hell of a roar We live in fame Or go down in flame Nothing can stop the army echo Here's a toast To the host Of those who love the vastness Of the sky To a friend We send a message Of his brother Men who fly We drink To those who gave Their all of old We down We roar To score the rainbow's pot of gold To the toast To the host Of men We boast The Army Air Corps Off we go Into the wild sky yonder Keep the wings level and true If you'd live To be a gray-haired wonder Keep the nose Out of the blue Flying men Guarding the nation's border We'll be there Followed by more In echelon We carry on Nothing can stop The Army Air Corps Nothing can stop The Army Air Corps James Melton has just sung The song of the Army Air Corps And now over on this side Of the veranda Overlooking City Hall Plaza Is Boyd Heath To sing Roger Young Roger Young Roger Young Roger Young Roger Young Oh, they've got no time for glory in the infantry Oh, they've got no use for praise as loudly sung But in every soldier's heart But in every soldier's heart And all the infantry Shines the name Shines the name Of Roger Young Shines the name Roger Young Fought and died for the men he marched among To the everlasting glory of the infantry Live the story of private Roger Young Fought in ambush lay a company of riflemen Just grenades against machine guns in the gloom Fought in ambush till this one of twenty riflemen Volunteered, volunteered to meet his crew Volunteered, volunteered to meet his crew Fought and died for the men he marched among In the everlasting annals of the infantry Was the last need of private Roger Young It was he who drew the fire of the enemy That a company of men might live to fight And before the deadly fire of the enemy Stood the man, stood the man we feel tonight Stood the man, Roger Young Fought and died for the men he marched among Like the everlasting courage of the infantry Was the courage of private Roger Young No, they've got no time for glory in the infantry No, they've got no use for praises loudly sung But in every soldier's heart in all the infantry Shines the name, shines the name of Roger Young Shines the name, Roger Young Fought and died for the men he marched among When the everlasting honor of the infantry Lives the last need of private Roger Young And now ladies and gentlemen, I believe it's the turn Of the police department Glee Club To bring us their portion of the opening ceremonies My Mr. Jones No private rooms or telephone You had your breakfast in bed before But you won't have it there anymore This is yummy Mr. Green We like the barracks nice and clean You had a house safe to clean your floor But she won't help you out anymore Do what the builders command They're in the army and not in the band This is the army Mr. Brown This is the army Mr. Brown You and your baby went to town She had you worry but this is war And she won't worry you anymore And she won't worry you anymore This is the army Mr. Jones No private rooms or telephone You had your breakfast in bed before But you won't have it there anymore This is the army Mr. Green You and your family We need your band That might be a castle You and your family You will take it away And you're not alone You and your friends You are my pro-language And you need your yourself You came back You and your defense You have your affair You and your desk You will walk in you The army missed a proud, you had to worry, but this is war, and she won't worry you anymore. And now, ladies and gentlemen, Mayor LaGuardia to greet General Eisenhower officially. Mayor LaGuardia. General Dwight E. Eisenhower and my fellow New Yorkers, nothing could possibly be added to the reception given to the General by a million and a half people this morning. And General, you ain't seen or heard nothing yet. That greeting, General, that I know must have touched you, came from the hearts of men and women of our city, the mothers, the wives, sisters, and sweethearts, the fathers and brothers of the men that you led in this war to final victory. No homecoming of a great warrior could be entirely and completely joyful. General, because there were intermingled with those tears, tears of the parents whose boys their families will not come back. But they saw in you, General, the spirit of our country. They brought back a memory which they will always cherish. History has yet to record the achievements of the great commander of a mighty army to equal. In gallantry, courage, brilliancy, and determination, that of General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower. He knew exactly what to do at the right time. He accomplished what the military experts of our enemies believed impossible. But it will always be said that not a single life, that not one attack or skirmish was ordered, was ordered, or a life sacrifice, for any other than actual military necessity leading toward final victory. There were no battles for headlines in Eisenhower's tactics. I hope you will pardon, General, if I say that every minute of every hour of every day this great city was back of you, back of the men under your command. There was no let-up. We are proud. Now it can't be said. We were the greatest port of embarkation of any country at any time. And it moves smoothly, nightly, and daily, without a hitch. You did not have an army, but what a large percentage of the officers and men were from our city. You did not have a division, a brigade, a squadron, and I'd venture to say a battalion, but what a percentage of the officers and men were from our city, because we have made the largest contribution in manpower of any unit in the country. New York City gave 750,000 of our sons to our country. That is why, General, their folks, same kind of folks down in your part of the country, came out to greet you. And that's why that greeting was so sincere, because at all time, they had confidence in you. At all time, they knew that their boys were not only well-led, but properly trained, properly equipped, and well-cared for. The city is grateful to you for that. There is little that a city can do except to express itself as we do now. And as a memoir of this day, may I present to you, General, on behalf of the city of New York, this medal bearing the seal of our mighty city, an inscription which expresses the feeling and the gratitude of all of our people, written by one who knows New York, who knows us folks, who knows us folks, our city's foremost scholar, Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler. The inscription reads, the city of New York awards the medal to General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower, victorious commander-in-chief and the commander-in-chief of the Allied Army in defense of human liberty and the fundamental principles on which free institution rests. 1945. But before presenting the medal, I have here a very pleasant mission, and I want you to believe it, General, because none of these folks out here are going to believe me. The Board of Estimate and the City Council and the Mayor were unanimous in it. And by authority and by virtue of the authority, coming from the hearts of the people of the City of New York, with this document, we confer upon you the honorary citizenship of New York City. The certificate reads, be it known, that on this 19th day of June, the year 1945, the Mayor, the Board of Estimate, and the Council of the City of New York, in grateful recognition of his brilliant leadership as supreme commander of the Allied expeditionary force, and his outstanding accomplishment of victory over the forces of evil, have constituted and by these present to hereby constitute General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower, an honorary citizen of the City of New York. To history, you will be known as a military genius. In the records of our government, as General of the Army. To Mamie, you will be known as Dwight. But to seven and a half million people, you are now our Ike. Mayor LaGuardia is now conferring upon General Eisenhower's citizenship, honorary citizenship of the City of New York, and the gold medal of the city with the inscription prepared by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler. Dr. Eisenhower now coming up to the stand as he receives this tremendous ovation, after which he will acknowledge the honors which have just been conferred upon him. Listen to this uproarious ovation given to General Ike. General Ike! General Ike! General Ike! Mr. Mayor and New Yorkers, as my first act as a citizen of the City of New York, I want to issue to the Mayor a word of warning. New York simply can't do this to a Kansas farmer boy and keep its reputation for sophistication. No man could possibly feel a higher sense of distinction than I do this morning. Not only in the official honors that have been heaped upon me so generously, and the extravagant commendation paid me by your Mayor, but it is given to few men to see a great city rejoicing. to see a great city rejoicing. My trip, that the Mayor says is merely beginning, has been to me an experience of a lifetime. As we started the trip this morning, I kept wondering what it was that seemed to be different. And then I remembered, only yesterday, for the first time in three years, I have ridden through a city in which there are not great ragged holes, piles of rubble, destruction. Naturally, you are fortunate to have escaped the catastrophes that have been visited on nearly every capital of Europe. But, this thing also came back to me. I know New York's record in this war. I know its record of 750,000 men in the service, and its record of shipments through its great ports, its accomplishments in other directions. You did not have that incentive of imminent and constant danger. And therefore, I think possibly, there is another kind of courage that has its place in war, other than that we find on the battlefield. It is the courage to continue your job for an ideal, almost an academic concept, that New York did. I do not mean to say you were not close to the battle line through these 750,000 men you sent there. But the screaming, hurtling bomb was not coming down upon your heads. The flak guns were not firing all over the city and keeping the heavens red with their flames. It is harder to do your duty under those circumstances. From the bottom of my heart, and on behalf of 3 million fighting men, I would like to thank this city this instant for its great three years record. There is another thing, Mr. Mayor, that impressed me very much as you and I rode down through the cheering throng this morning. First, the reason for the cheering. It was not because one individual, one American, came back from war. It is rejoicing that a nasty job is done. One nasty job is finished. The Nazi has been placed where he won't harm us for a little while. Anyway. How much better would it have been had there been no cause for rejoicing, had there been no war? At one stretch in our trip this morning, the mayor told me there were 450,000 school children. I looked at them carefully. I suppose they averaged 12 years old. Can the parents and the relatives of those children look 10 years ahead and be satisfied with anything less than your best to keep them away from the horrors of the battlefield? It's got to be done. It isn't enough that we devise every kind of international machinery to keep the peace. We must also be strong ourselves. Weakness cannot cooperate with anything. Only strength can cooperate. If we are going to live the years of peace to which this weary world is entitled and which we passionately want for our children, then we must be strong and we must be ready to cooperate and in the spirit of true tolerance and forbearance. And now, just one word a bit more personal. I refer again to the mayor's extravagant commendation on my leadership of a great force in Europe. I had the most devoted and the ablest band of officers, allied and American, that any officer could have had. It would have been difficult to go wrong. With me this morning are some of those officers. My naval commander, my chief of staff, my operations officer. To them and through them and with all of the other ranks with me, there are 50 in the party, we will spread the news of New York's welcome to a few returning soldiers. Particularly, will we take that back to the army still in Europe where they will gain new assurance that you are in your anxious thoughts and that you have not forgotten them in your prayers and in your affections. Mr. Mayor and fellow citizens, I thank you all once more for an honor that could not be excelled anywhere in this world or in one lifetime. Thank you. And as General Eisenhower steps back from the speaker's stand, some 80 or 90,000 people rise to their feet, applaud and clap. The Sanitation Department band now plays deep in the heart of Texas. As you know, General Eisenhower was born in Tyler, Texas, although at the age of two or two and a half, his family removed to Abilene, Kansas, where he now makes his home and where he will visit in a couple of days his mother living there at the moment. And as the band under the direction of John Celebrate continues playing deep in the heart of Texas, General Eisenhower and his staff, Mayor LaGuardia and the official reception committee, are making their way into City Hall. The General, the Mayor and the official staff and reception committee will then board their cars and ride back uptown. The route of the uptown motorcade will be given to you from your studios in just a moment or two. And they will finally wind up at the mayor's home for an intimate luncheon. And there's the roar which rises here again in City Hall Plaza as General Eisenhower has made his way out through the rear of City Hall to the west of the plaza. And he is probably caught sight of as he turned the corner at the south side. I don't think that any finer tribute could have been paid to any man, to General of the Army, Dwight David Eisenhower, than the few words spoken by Mayor LaGuardia. There were no battles for headlines in Eisenhower's tactics. And so, ladies and gentlemen, from City Hall Plaza on this historic June 19, 1945, where we've seen honorary citizenship and a gold medal conferred upon the commander-in-chief of the Allied forces, the Allied Expeditionary Forces in the European Theater of War, we take leave of you, bid you all good afternoon, with the one word, by bonds, give blood. We return you now to our studios. This is Nat Rudick speaking to you from the top of the municipal building, where we can look down on Center Street, which leads into Lafayette Street, the next street that the procession will take. What we see from here is this, ladies and gentlemen. We can see the back of City Hall itself. The back of City Hall, there are a flight of steps down, and down at the bottom of that flight there is the General's car and the other cars lining up behind it, as it is about to, the procession itself is about to come out of City Hall Park, down to Chamber Street, into Center Street, along Center Street, up to Lafayette Street. From Lafayette Street, they'll go to 4th Street, west on 4th Street, into Washington Square Park, and up 5th Avenue, up 5th Avenue from Washington, from the Washington Arch. From 5th Avenue, they will go over to 7th Avenue at 23rd Street, where they'll go into the Garment District, up into Times Square, and from there, up Broadway, as they go up to 86th Street, and then across town, east to the East River Drive and the Mayor's House. What we see from here is this, ladies and gentlemen. We see all the, the mobs of people that are, were originally in front of the City Hall, in the plaza, now coming around the sides, both on Park Row, and trying to get in through Broadway, over here to Chamber Street, and Center Street. All of, all of Center Street is lined now by people, people coming out of the City Hall of Records, all the various City buildings here, in this section of the City, which is populated densely by all the civil workers of the City and of the State. The General has not yet come out the back of City Hall into his car. When he does, we will let you know, there, the, there's the Arm Guard, the MPs, military police, are waiting back there. The place is blocked off by New York City patrolmen, so no one can get back into that section. The, um, all along Chamber Street, there, the, um, motorcycle escort is set up waiting for the cars to come through. Uh, the cars will come around, uh, the back of City Hall, uh, into Chamber Street for a short, uh, portion of Chamber Street to Center Street, and then up Center Street to Lafayette Street and uptown. Uh, if you have not as yet, uh, been at any point along the line of March, we do suggest that you try to, uh, uh, get in up at Washington Square, uh, up Fifth Avenue to 23rd Street, up Seventh Avenue, in through the Garment District and up into Times Square. From there, also, up Broadway, for up Broadway until 86th Street, where the, uh, party will go east. Later on, we will, uh, bring in our, uh, mobile, uh, uh, transmitter, which, uh, up to this time we haven't had a chance to put on the air due to certain technical difficulties in, uh, in the, uh, parade. We will put that transmitter on the air from 23rd Street and Seventh Avenue. Uh, the next point where we will go from here, when I complete the description of the, uh, uh, parade from here, we will go take you to, uh, Washington Square Park, where Howard Reed is all set up to give you a description of the procession as it goes through Washington Square Park, uh, under the, uh, historic Washington Arch, through that university, New York University District, uh, and, uh, historic Greenwich Village, uh, as well as up Fifth Avenue. Then, uh, we, Howard Reed will turn you over to, uh, uh, Corporal Dick Pack of the First, uh, Air Force, who has, uh, been patiently waiting on the truck to, uh, uh, get to describe some of the, uh, proceedings. Uh, we'll bring him in at 23rd Street and Seventh Avenue as he joins the parade there. From there, we will, uh, give you a description up Seventh Avenue, through the Garment District, up into Times Square, through Times Square, past Duffy Square, where, Father Duffy Square, where, uh, a number of, uh, bands of music will be, uh, prepared, waiting to greet the general. Uh, we imagine the Times Square, uh, will be probably as packed as it is, usually on a New Year's Eve. Uh, from the indication that we've seen here of, uh, the, how many thousands and thousands of people have actually come out, uh, uh, and, and filled in all of City Hall Plaza. Now, the, uh, there are more people, more military men, uh, around the back of City Hall that we can see from here. Uh, it is completely blocked in, uh, with men. The, uh, motorcycle units are starting to, uh, warm up. Uh, all that noise that we can get up here, we can hear that, and all the motorcycle men on this, uh, 100 motorcycle escort are warming up. The, uh, uh, the policemen on the, uh, motorcycles are running to their, uh, those who aren't on them are running toward them. Uh, people are milling uptown from, uh, Park Row to get into this section where, uh, uh, they can see the, uh, General Azzy comes in from Chamber Street into Center Street and up to Lafayette Street. Uh, he hasn't gotten into his car as yet. The General hasn't gotten into his car as yet. I imagine at this point we can actually call him our fellow New Yorker, since he is an honorary citizen of the city. He hasn't, General Ike hasn't gotten into the truck as yet. And all are patiently waiting. Incidentally, the newsreel cameramen have turned their, uh, cars around on Chamber Street. They were parked back of, uh, uh, the City Hall as well as the courthouse. Back of the courthouse, they were parked on Chamber Street. They've turned around, and they're prepared to join the line of march as the cars come through and come around the back of City Hall Park. Now a big flock of pigeons have gone, uh, over the area where the General's, uh, car is, uh, circling the area. And he is now walking down the steps. There is a big shout of greeting as he walks down the back steps of the City Hall into his car. And I can see the photo flashes. Now he's in the car. I can see the flashes of the, uh, photographer's bulbs. Uh, as, uh, he gets into the car. Now the, uh, two cars that precede him, uh, one a white and, uh, green police car preceding his car. They're starting to move slowly. He will be coming through on the road that runs through the back of City Hall itself. Um, and he will come out on Chamber Street in a short distance to Center Street. The motorcycle escort incidentally is already on Center Street awaiting, uh, the car to, uh, awaiting the car as it will come up in back of them. And then dozens and dozens of motorcycles have just ended this procession. And now as we look down Fifth Avenue underneath this arch, we see General Eisenhower still standing up and waving so very proudly to all his men and all his admirers. And the crowd loves Eisenhower. You can see that. He's such a very personable person. Well, now everybody is flooding the streets. The children are going wild, stepping on the same piece of pavement that General Eisenhower rode over. Uh, the crowd has been disbanded. They're mobbing the streets behind the motorcycles. And the noise that they're making right now can be picked up, I think, by our monitors. Well, the procession has passed Washington Square, ladies and gentlemen. And I think that you can get a better cover from our sound truck, which is all the way down along with the Eisenhower parade. And so we're going to hand this over to Corporal Dick Pack of the First Army Air Force, who is in the WNYC sound truck. Dick Pack speaking again from, uh, 23rd Street. I think we're getting feedback there, are we? Okay. We're speaking to you from 23rd Street and the corner of 7th Avenue, where this crowd of people that line 7th Avenue and 23rd Street, as far as the eye can see in all directions, is still waiting. Patiently for the arrival of the motorcade. Uh, we were speaking to you a while back. We told you we had a couple of GIs here who were waiting on sort of a busman's holiday to see General Ike. General Ike they served with overseas. I don't know if, uh, they switched away from us before we told you about, uh, uh, former sergeant, former corporal, uh, Mayor here, who served overseas with, uh, under General Ike and won himself three Purple Hearts. Um, he was telling us that he had quite a unique plan. Right? That bugle you may hear in the background there, incidentally, is not that of anybody connected with the official procession. It's just a couple of kids in sailor hats up on top of the roof for a blurry bugle to add their own bit to the welcome to General Ike. Uh, we're trying to know about, uh, Corporal Bear here. What was that idea of yours again, in case those who, uh, cut us off before we got it? Well, he loves to be carried down to the family on the shoulders of the man who served under him. Mm-hmm. Well, uh, that's the idea we'll say for VJJ then, huh? We'll do it, and the guys will serve with him. By the way, if I may be personal, uh, you weren't born in this country, were you? No. Corporal? Ex-corporal? Where were you born? I was born in Germany. Born in Germany. Yes, right. In other words, you are a very fine example of what America means, of what democracy is in this man's army. It's a lot to me. All my life. All your life. And you went overseas to serve your new country, and more than gave it your full share of devotion and hard work in fighting. Thank you. And, uh, I know that there's sentiment of everyone listening in that we wish you good luck in your new career, and that is, of being a civilian instead of a GI. Thank you very much. Right. And over here is another New Yorker, another decorated New Yorker who's waiting to see General Ike. Um, your name again is? Fireplace class Keller. Manny Keller. Where you from, Manny? Brooklyn, New York. Brooklyn, New York. Well, what would a parade be without a Brooklynite here or around? Uh, and you're wearing the combat infantry men's badge, the bronze star, which you won, uh, for what? That's quite a high award. What did you get that award? Well, standing one of my, one of the comrades. Where was that, Manny? In Germany. What battle? In, uh, Stuttgart. Oh, thank you. Over the last fall, uh... What happened? You know about a reason? Well, it wasn't very much. He just got a hit and tried to point in and got him out. That's, I think, a classic understatement. Yeah. You won the bronze star for that and the Purple Heart. You were wounded when? And, uh, shortly after I got my bronze star. How long you been back? Oh, about a month and a half. And, uh, what's in the horoscope for you as far as your career is concerned? Oh, we're on there. I hope we get it discharged soon. Mm-hmm. Well, Manny, did you see General Ike overseas? Yeah, I saw him in England. Where by? What are the conditions? Oh, after, after deed day. This was close to Manchester. Mm-hmm. And he speak to your troops then? Yes, he was just telling us what we were up against and go in and get it over with. So they're briefing you. That's right. Well, are the GIs, uh, how they react to that? Oh, they thought he was a great guy. I always wove him. He was a great guy. Mm-hmm. What did he do before he got the Army, Manny? Uh, a printer? That's right. Well, I think we can give you a little place a plug. I heard you were. Oh, uh, it's a strike hose pie here. Strike hose pie? You don't want to get him a figure? No. Even though I can't. They don't need it. Okay. Well, thanks a lot, Manny, and good luck to you whether you stay in the Army or get one of those nice yellow embroidered insignia there like, uh, former T-5, uh, bears wearing. Okay. Uh, by the way, if you guys could be planting more GIs around here and want to bring them here, okay. Well, we're still waiting here. The long wait. Okay, good luck. The wait here, um, pardon me. It's sort of quiet. I probably imagine you don't hear any background noise in the, uh, as we're speaking to you now, because there's a strange sort of hush over the crowd here. I don't know why it is exactly. I guess they're just storing up energy to let loose at full blast with an all-out welcome as soon as the general comes into view. Right. Well, now, here's another GIs here to watch the parade today. What's your name, Silver? Come on up here. Sergeant Messon here. What's your first name? George. George. Where are you from, George? Uh, Washington, Pennsylvania. Serve overseas? Yeah. Whereabouts? Pacific. Pacific. What's better? Uh-huh. Around New Zealand. I was in, uh, Hawaiian Island. Well, I guess all your GIs have served in the Pacific and are serving there. I hope that one of these days we'll be having a victory celebration for the General Semester of War II. That's right. Well, now, ladies and gentlemen, the parade is coming up here. Uh, I guess you can hear it now. Uh, we're clinging onto our mobile transmitter. We're going to get going soon. Here are the, the advanced guard of the parade. The advanced guard, the dozens of motorcycle escorts. And you hear all the sirens there now. Just listen to them. And you hear all the sirens. You can hear all the sirens. They're really giving us plenty of sound effects. Now, second in the advanced guard is a newsreel truck. A newsreel truck. Another one. There's a GI newsreel truck. Well, the Army's information serves to covering this event here today, too. There's limousine with one of the official party in. More police cars. There's a Jeep. Now he played. Now he needs a Jeep. There's a, and there he is, General Eisenhower. He's standing up, still untired, still waving a microphone. He's waving back at us. And now we're going to follow along here as his motor can't speak up behind him. He's very untiring, this General Eisenhower. He's standing in the car yet, turning from left to right, right to left, one-to-left, one-to-left, right to left, waving. It's a wonder how he can have the energy to keep up so long. And yet, as he goes down this long canyon here, there's Southern Avenue. He's still standing in the back of the car and getting the quadrants of the people of Chelsea. It's been a real east side, west side, all around the town today for General Eich. He's been uptown in Queens. He's been down Queens through the Grand Central Parkway. We were there this morning. And as he went, he saw people lined up on every square inch along the road there. With high school children, elementary school children, they were lined up over the crossways that crossed the highway. And now he's been down Fifth Avenue. He's been down the Wall Street section. And now on this tour of the town for Honorary Citizen Eich, he's going up 7th Avenue. Overhead there, there's a huge fan that covers the entire street. And it says, speed, total victory. The mighty seven, five bonds, war bond, and welcome home General Eisenhower. And that, of course, a very practical way of welcome home General Eich. We're now about 29th Street and 7th Avenue. And still ahead of us, still standing very erect and soldierly, below informally is General Eich. And he's still waving left and right. And now he's approaching Penn Station. And the crowd of anything has been before. By the way, overhead 50,000 of buildings here are paper, paper that could be used otherwise. But anyway, folks want to commemorate this day, and they're letting vent to their expressions with the paper. By the way, even Penn Station here is quite a sight, something we've never seen before. There are crowds of people on the very top of the building there, lined up and cheering to General Eich. Now we're approaching 34th Street. We're speaking, of course, from this mobile transmitter that's following the official parade, very close behind General Eich. And can you hear, as we pass Macy's here, can you hear the crowds cheering? Listen to him. Can you hear that cheer? And now there's a verbal snowstorm, a snowstorm of paper that's cascading down above the rocket. We're starting to come into New York's famous department. I don't know if you can hear me about the crowd here. Listen now, just listen for a moment. Have you ever heard a mass of people give vent to respect and admiration for any one man? This is it. Listen. And there's a sign saying, Hale Eisenhower, you stitch your shroud for victory, and we're sewing the clothes for the soldiers. All these ILGWU members here in the garment work sections have interesting placards which express their sentiments in print as well as vocally. Hale Eisenhower, who sewed up victory. The ILGWU raised that placard. And now we're continuing up here. We've just passed the Metropolitan Opera House. We're passing the Metropolitan Opera House. And Ike is starting to come into the approaches to Times Square. We're starting to come into the approaches of Times Square as we pass out of the garment area here. And there he's reached 42nd Street in Broadway, the heart of New York. And we're going to turn you up to another reporter who's in a vantage point on top of the telephone building center there. This is Corporal Dick Plack of the First Air Force signing off from now for my mobile transmitter. And turn you up to the reporter on the telephone building. Come in from the telephone building. Mayor Fiorella LaGuardia seated in the car. The General is standing, waving graciously. Followed him is another car, which contains Lieutenant General Walter Beto Smith and Grover A. Whalen, who has taken care of so many of the arrangements for this great occasion. Following are many other cars, all carrying official members of General Eisenhower's staff. The motorcade is moving by us very rapidly now. It won't be possible for us to sight the various people who are in these cars. And in as much as we have another microphone set up further up Broadway, I think I'd better pass along the microphone now to Ted Campbell, who has a description of the parade as it passes his point of view. And now we turn you over to Ted Campbell at the WMCA building on Broadway at 51st Street. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Ted Campbell talking to you from our special microphone in the WMCA building. The WMCA building has a lot of 12 million cars and there, the man they're all cheering. General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower, smiling at famous Eisenhower grin and waving to the crowd that's banked up from store windows to the curb. Here along Broadway, the street that's seen so many heroes pass, but has never given a more tumultuous welcome to any man than to General Eisenhower. The other cars are closed cars and it's impossible to see all the members of Eisenhower's party. Now we're going to take you up to our mobile transmitter, our mobile unit with Dick Pack. Come in, Dick Pack. Well now we pass the ILGWU building on 54th Street and there's the ILGWU band playing. Can you hear it? And General Eich is still waving. Now he's using both hands instead of one. He's getting a double job done. Left and right he goes, turning to either side as we pass up and he reaches 57th Street. I wonder how any one man can do so many wavings of one arm and two arms as he's done today. Well it's probably equivalent to at least a thousand of those famous push-ups that any GI knows about that we GIs do for PT every morning. And now we're coming out of Broadway into Columbus Circle. And Columbus Circle is jam packed every square inch of it for hundreds and hundreds of feet around. The Columbus Monument there is offering a fine vantage point to many a young youngster who's climbed up upon it and is seeing the parade from that vantage point. Watch out for our antennas as our engineer here because there's a very long steel antenna on top of this building. This morning we are coming through the trees of Central Park. We broke the other antenna which unfortunately was wooden. And now we've turned up Broadway. We're past the... We're at about 61st Street. I'm about 22. A 2 ago. 10 す Used to fact. miejscWorks. A 6 days a thousand a hundred with Clerkem English. A 10 mind to 65 minutes a thousand a hundred posted points for counted watches. Can come to the opposite ofystёт to the distance. O 5, 4 days. There are only two guys on the other side beats from the steering room moving towards the steering room.