Look behind you. There at the door. Now at the window. Or just relax and take a look at this radio. The door. The window. This radio. They're all made of wood. All or part of each one. And what are you sitting on? A chair framed in wood on a floor of wood. Stop for just one minute and think, where would you be? Where would we all be without wood? Sure, this is the modern age of steel, of atoms and of chemicals. But that look around we just took certainly should have proven to us that with them all, we're still dependent on wood. And that means then, we're dependent on trees. Did you ever stop to think of what would happen to you, to all your modern comforts, if we had no trees? Well, that's no idle question, my friend. Right this minute, as you sit in your comfortable home, there's a danger of all of New York State's Adirondack forests going up in smoke. Right now, twisted, broken trees are hung one upon the other across almost half a million acres of our New York State forests. They're ready to be turned by one careless spark into a chain of flame that'll light the sky for hundreds of miles around and darken our future for decades by destroying the trees on which we depend for comfortable living. So important is this to you that your New York State Conservation Department wants you to see this incredible destruction for yourself. So hang on to your chair. We're going up 4,000 feet right now to join reporter George Cole high over the Adirondack Mountains. Department of Conservation pilot Fred McLean is flying George Cole and District Forester William Petty over these woodlands. They'll give you a first-hand view of these wind-torn lands. We're speaking to you now from aboard the New York State Conservation Department airplane Goosey. We're in flight high above the Adirondack Mountains in a place which we'll determine in just a moment by speaking to the pilot of the aircraft. As we look out of these windows, beneath us we see a scene of complete destruction. When first I gazed on this desolated area, an area which not long ago was heavily forested, I could only gasp and draw a deep breath as I realized the effect that last November's blowdown had on these Adirondack forests. At first look, I got the impression that some mythical giant with an enormous scythe in his hand had just swept that scythe low over these forests and had cut all of the trees just as a farmer might mow a field of hay or perhaps a stand of wheat. But then I took a second look and realized that my first bleeding impression had been all wrong. These trees have not been cut off above the ground, nor have they been broken off above ground by the force of the wind. These trees have been completely uprooted, and as their trunks lie on the ground, flat on the ground, the huge clumps of dirt which once were the roots of living trees loom into the air. Roots extend from these forlorn lower extremities, stretching vainly into the atmosphere. Those roots are seeking water and nourishment, but they're not finding it. Directly beneath me is a forest which is a dead and a lifeless thing, slaughtered by a blast of wind which swept over the Adirondacks last November and felled everything in its path. The scene we see beneath us as we sit in this airplane and gaze around is one that shocks us to the very core of our being. The entire forest is leveled. It's completely flat, almost as though a child had been playing a game of matchsticks, had grown tired of his game, and had thrown the matchsticks, held her skelter willy-nilly in a confused pile. Every now and then we see perhaps one tree, one grizzled old veteran, which for some reason or other has remained erect, escaped the blowdown, and is now standing proudly erect, the last survivor. These lofty sentinels, rearing their heads triumphantly over their fallen companions, might be compared to a pinnacle or a lightning rod. Now that's the theme we're going to get into in just a moment in this broadcast from aboard the airplane Goosey, but right now I'd like to sneak up into the pilot's compartment and talk to our pilot. You might be interested in knowing that this airplane is being flown by the chief pilot of the New York State Conservation Department, Fred McLean. Fred, I would like to know right now just where we are. That valley over here to our right is Cold River Valley, where the celebrated hermit, Noah Rondo, lives. Right up there at that point. You see the point over there? Yes, yes, Fred. I do see it now that you point it out. So this is where Noah Jean Rondo came from, eh? That's Noah's abode up there on the point. You see the teepees? Yeah. He lives in those teepees up there. I see. Fred, how long have you been flying aircraft by the Conservation Department in Forest Fireworth? Almost since I got the first airplane in 1936. That's a long time ago, and I imagine, Fred, in that length of time, you've seen some amazing things. Have you ever in your long years of flying experience seen anything as tragic as this blowdown that results from last November? This is the worst thing in the history of the state of New York that is as far as forest fires are concerned. We've never had a condition like this before in the history of the state. And here's hoping, Fred, that we will never have another like it. Thanks very much, Fred McLean. Seated beside me in the aircraft is Bill Petty, district forester in charge of forestry practices for this particular area. I'd like now to talk to Bill Petty. Bill, can you add any words which will tell our listeners how vast was the damage done by the blowdown in this area? How many acres were destroyed in this tract alone? There's about 6,000 acres here, George, that is completely blown flat. We're over the Cold River area now, and this is just a portion of the tremendous amount of damage that was done in the Adirondack forest. I've noticed, Bill, that some of the trees were broken off above ground, but the majority were pulled up by the roots and flattened. Can you explain that, Bill? Well, George, just before this heavy windstorm, we had a considerable amount of rain. This soaked the forest soils until they were well loosened up, and the trees had little to anchor their roots in the ground. Consequently, they were tipped over pretty rapidly in this high-velocity wind. Before we took off, Bill, you told me that no one has an accurate estimate of the velocity of the wind which hit these forests. It must have had a tremendous force to have done all this damage in so few hours. Is that right? That's right. We have no recorded record of the velocity in this area, but you can imagine that it is tremendous. Just as the sun was setting, the wind came up and blew until about 10 o'clock. Very, very hard, and it was at this time that the greatest amount of damage to our forest lands was done. I see, too, Bill, that the foreign trees are lying almost parallel to each other. Now, that would seem to indicate to me that the wind was pretty steady and from one direction. Would that have had any bearing on the situation? Yes, that would, George. You see, the wind came steadily from the southeast and blew during the evening hours from that one direction. As soon as the wind firm's trees were destroyed, there was very little to hold the others that had been sheltered all their lives, and they toppled over along with the rest. A moment ago, Bill, we were talking about the lone trees which are left standing in the midst of a clump of fallen ones, the occasional tree that looks so much like a lightning arrestor. Now, that situation's one of the great fire hazards, is it not? Yes, that is one that concerns us considerably. And right now, our rangers, in addition to opening up our fire trails, are rapidly trying to demolish those trees so they do not act as a lightning rod for lightning strikes, which, of course, does create a hazard up in this country. What's the condition of the roads and trails that might be used by firefighting crews to reach a burning area, Bill? Well, right now, they're pretty well plugged, but we have a large group of men under the forest rangers clearing the trails just as rapidly as we can. If that's the case, and these roads and trails are so plugged, I would assume that hikers and campers might get lost very easily, and I can see how fallen trees and tangled branches could be quite a hazard to anyone trying to get through on those blocked trails. Yes, they're going to be a considerable hazard until we can get them cleared, and I would urge caution on the part of everyone using the woods to see that they do not stray from these trails in the blowdown. Before we conclude this portion of the broadcast that's originating in the airplane Gooseyville, have you any message you would like to broadcast to people who might be coming into the woods, people such as tourists, hikers, campers, or fishermen? Well, just this, George, that this is still a grand country. We've lost a lot of timber, but we want to preserve what is left, and we need the help of every good citizen to be careful with fire, and I know that we will come through this problem in good shape. Thanks very much, Bill Petty, and may I echo the words that you have just said by saying, forest fire prevention is a job for everyone, and everyone is spelled Y-O-U. Yes, Y-O-U. What happens to those trees that have just been described to you from over the Adirondack Forests is important to you. The action your Empire State is taking to clear those forests and to care for them is being done for you. The cooperation and safety measures necessary to help carry out this job must be taken by you. Now may I introduce to you one of the men largely responsible for the care of the lands and waters of our state, Mr. Kenny Williams, Superintendent of Forest Fire Control for our New York State Department of Conservation. Mr. Williams, we've just heard a description of the blowdown area, and I believe you have something to add about the seriousness of this situation. Yes, I have, Fred. The seriousness cannot be exaggerated. Unfortunately, persons who have not had the opportunity to see the same area from the air that you have seen, or who have been unable to go onto the ground and see it, have no appreciation of the extent, because unfortunately, little or none of it is visible from any highways that are regularly traveled in New York State. In other words, if you're driving through in your car, it might seem to be a perfectly good forest. Is that right? Driving through in the car, you would think that this was a gross exaggeration. Well, is there now a possibility that some of these areas will be closed to the public because of the seriousness of the situation? It is inevitable that some of these areas will have to be closed to public use for two reasons. One, for the safety of the public themselves, because no one with any degree of safety can enter into these areas. I mean, you just can't go into them. Or if you do go in and break a leg or an ankle or an arm, you'll only be taken out with the utmost difficulty. The second reason is that fires must be kept out of these blowdown areas. Well, I've been given to understand that a relatively small area may be closed, but the vast majority will be open. Now, what can we do to avoid starting fires in those areas that are going to be open this year? I just want to digress a moment and say that you're absolutely right in the statement that a relatively small area of the Adirondacks may be closed. Now, to answer your question, most fires in New York State as elsewhere in the Northeast are caused by careless smoking habits. There's areas where fires can start at any time of the year, and in those areas the hiker or the camper or the picniker, the fisherman, the hunter, or what have you, can use a few simple precautions and prevent the occurrence of carelessly started fires. If a smoker would be certain that it matches out by breaking it in two between his fingers before he casts it aside, he'd prevent the occurrence of a large number of fires each year. Cigarette butts, pipe heels, yes, and even burning cigars, if they fall in the right spot, can and frequently do cause bad fires. So be sure that your cigarette, be sure that all burning tobacco is stamped out on moist soil before you leave the spot. It's better, if you're in a dry area, to sit down somewhere and have a smoke and stamp the burning tobacco out then and there before going on. If you're a camper or if you want a lunch or a smudge, it can be started with safety. Be sure to start it on rocks preferably, if not on mineral soil. A stream bed makes an excellent site for a fire of that sort. And be sure that the fire, that the embers are out before you leave them. Water is about the only means of being certain of extinguishing fires of that sort. But those are the important things. Be sure to dispose of your smoking materials in a safe manner. Be sure to care for your camping fires. Well, thank you, Mr. Kinney Williams, Superintendent of Forest Fire Control for our New York State Department of Conservation. Now, friends, you can understand, can't you, why our trees are part of today's investment in our future. It takes from 40 to 60 years to rebuild a forest. This means that care of our forest isn't something we can leave until the last minute. This means that when you hold a lighted cigarette in your hand as you drive through our beautiful New York mountains, when you hold a match to a campfire in our colorful New York hills and parks, or even to a small fire in your own backyard, you're holding the key to a holocaust. Whatever you do, don't turn that key. Your New York State Department of Conservation and your Department of Commerce Radio Bureau, thank you, friends, for listening to this report of the fire hazards that threaten us as a result of last November's windstorm. We appreciate the time that this station has given to us to bring you this vital information. And we thank you for the cooperation we know that you and your family will give in taking every possible precaution to prevent fires while you're enjoying those wonderful warm-weather weekends, vacations, and drives. Remember always that forest fire prevention is a job for everyone. And everyone is spelled Y-O-U.
