This is Joseph Cotton. Millions of rheumatic patients need your help. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is fighting to conquer this crippling disease, but research and medicine cost money. Give what you can today to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation care of your local postmaster. This is Joseph Cotton. Start the day right. Help the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation to carry on its fight against rheumatic disease, which cripples nearly five percent of our entire population. Through research and educational programs, much can be done to alleviate this suffering. Give now to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Joseph Cotton. More than seven million men, women, and children today suffer from the pain and anguish of arthritis and rheumatism. Yet only one person in three receives treatment by a physician, partially through lack of knowledge and partially because facilities for the care of patients are inadequate. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is striving desperately to correct this situation through its nationwide program for extensive research, better clinic facilities, and the education of both physicians and laymen in the early recognition of symptoms and care. By its efforts, the Foundation promises hope to 30 million families affected by the nation's number one crippler. You can help by sending your contribution to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation today, care of your local postmaster. This is important, so please give generously. The address again is Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. Thank you. This is Ethel Barrymore speaking. No age is safe from Arthritis and Rheumatism. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation has launched a national appeal for two million dollars for clinics, training, and research to fight these crippling diseases. You can help by giving today to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Ethel Barrymore speaking. Arthritis is man's oldest disease. It must be man's newest crusade. Help meet this challenge by contributing generously to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. Don't delay. Give today. This is Shirley Temple. Do you know what constant pain is like? More than 7 million rheumatic patients with crippled arms and legs certainly do. You can help provide means for relieving their suffering by giving generously to patients. Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Shirley Temple. Do you know what constant pain is like? More than seven million rheumatic patients with crippled arms and legs certainly do. You can help provide means for relieving their suffering by giving generously today to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Shirley Temple. Start the day right. Help the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation to carry on its fight against rheumatic disease, which cripples nearly 5% of our entire population. Through research and educational programs, much can be done today to alleviate the suffering. Give now to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Shirley Temple. 520 million dollars is lost in wages each year by those suffering from arthritis and rheumatism. Most of this loss strikes those who can least afford it, families with low incomes. You can help by supporting the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's program of research education in the causes and treatment of rheumatic disease. Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Clark Gable. This is Clark Gable. No age is safe from arthritis and rheumatism. No age is safe from arthritis and rheumatism. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation has launched a national appeal for 2 million dollars for clinics, trained and researched to fight these crippling diseases. You can help by giving today to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Clark Gable. No age is safe from arthritis and rheumatism. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation has launched a national appeal for 2 million dollars for clinics, trained and researched to fight these crippling diseases. You can help by giving today to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Clark Gable. More than 7 million men, women and children today suffer the pain and anguish of arthritis and rheumatism. Yet only one person in three receives treatment by a physician, partially because of lack of knowledge and partially because facilities for the care of patients are inadequate. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is striving desperately to correct this situation through its nationwide program for extensive research, better clinic facilities and education of both physicians and laymen in the early recognition of symptoms and care. By its efforts, the Foundation promises hope to 30 million families affected by the nation's number one crippler. You can help by sending your contribution to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation today, care of your local postmaster. This is important, so please give generously. The address again, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Rosalind Russell. More than 7 million pain-wracked arthritics need your help. Won't you support the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's effort to stamp out the nation's number one crippler? Its work is bringing relief to these sufferers. So give generously to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Rosalind Russell. Did you know that 97 million workdays are lost every year through the crippling effects of rheumatic disorders? Through its local chapters, the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is trying to combat this age-old disease. You can help, too, by giving to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation care of your local postmaster. This is Rosalind Russell. The usefulness of more than 7 million people in America is being lost through arthritis and rheumatism. Eighty percent of the sufferers from this painful and crippling disease could be rehabilitated to become productive members of society. They need us, and we need them. Help release this human power for our nation's needs by giving generously to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation care of your local postmaster. This is Ruth Hesse. Arthritis is America's number one crippler. Lend your strength and support to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's nationwide program of research and education. Send your contribution to Arthritis Postmaster. This is Ruth Hesse. Anguish, misery. That's a lot of more than 7 million rheumatic sufferers. You can help them through the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's nationwide program to provide more research, clinics, and care. Give generously today to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Ruth Hesse. More than 7 million men, women, and children today suffer from the pain and anguish of arthritis and rheumatism. And yet only one person in three receives treatment by a physician, partially through lack of knowledge and partially because facilities for the care of patients are inadequate. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is striving desperately to correct this situation through its nationwide program for extensive research, better clinic facilities, and the education of both physicians and laymen in the early recognition of symptoms and care. By its efforts, the Foundation promises hope to 30 million families affected by the nation's number one crippler. You can help by sending your contribution to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation today, care of your local postmaster. This is important, so please give generously. The address again is Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. Thank you. This is Humphrey Bogart. More than 7 million pain-racked arthritics need your help. Won't you support the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's effort to stamp out the nation's number one crippler? Its work is bringing relief to these sufferers. So give generously to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Humphrey Bogart. More than 7 million Americans today are afflicted with rheumatic diseases. Do your part to relieve their suffering. Support the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's program of research and education into the causes of rheumatic diseases and methods of prevention. Give to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Lauren Bacall. Seven and a half million of your neighbors suffer the agonizing pain and crippling deformities of arthritis and rheumatism. You can help them by contributing to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's nationwide program to combat this disabling disease. Send your gift to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Lauren Bacall. Pain-wracked bodies, anguish, misery. That is the lot of more than 7 million rheumatic sufferers. Through the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's nationwide program to provide more research, clinics and care, you can help these people return to normal lives. Give generously today to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Lauren Bacall. More than 7 million men, women and children today suffer the pain and anguish of arthritis and rheumatism. Yet only one person in three receives treatment by a physician, partly because of lack of knowledge and partially because facilities for the care of patients are inadequate. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is striving desperately to correct this situation through its nationwide program for extensive research, better clinic facilities and education of both physicians and laymen in the early recognition of symptoms and care. By its efforts, the Foundation promises hope to 30 million families affected by the nation's number one crippler. You can help by sending your contribution to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation today, care of your local postmaster. This is important, so please give generously. The address again, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Dick Powell. Do you know what constant pain is like? More than 7 million rheumatic patients with crippled arms and legs certainly do. You can help provide means for relieving their suffering by giving generously today to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Dick Powell. Did you know that 97 million work days are lost every year through the crippling effects of rheumatic disorders? Through its local chapters, the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is trying to combat this age-old disease. You can help too by giving to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. This is Dick Powell. More than 7 million men, women and children today suffer the pain and anguish of arthritis and rheumatism. Yet only one person in three receives treatment by a physician, partially because of lack of knowledge and partially because facilities for the care of patients are inadequate. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation is striving desperately to correct this situation through its nationwide program for extensive research, better clinic facilities and education of both physicians and laymen in the early recognition of symptoms and care. By its efforts, the Foundation promises hope to 30 million families affected by the nation's number one crippler. You can help by sending your contribution to the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation today, care of your local postmaster. This is important, so please give generously. The address again, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. That's I agree with you all, a great part of the readily advocated by Ц luz a meadow f ses an dint. That's called Bell judge and Rheumatism Foundation, care of your local postmaster. See you all up once in a few seconds time until it goes contrat pittsana, care of your local postmaster. on fire image, r destro. and n the aqaqmgm