Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks the question, what does the American heritage mean? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the origins of our freedoms and their applications to the problems of today. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Ralph E. Ellsworth, Director of Libraries at the State University of Iowa, John A. Wilson, Professor of Egyptology at the University of Chicago, and Clarence R. Decker, President of the University of Kansas City. Now I think I should say here at the opening, gentlemen, that the American Library Association, with which some of you are associated, is now holding its 75th anniversary conference here in Chicago. The theme of this conference is the subject of this program, the American Heritage in Time of Crisis. The Library Association has just announced a grant of $150,000 from the Ford Foundation to help support its nationwide study of the American Heritage, a program to stimulate general thinking on our freedoms by understanding their origin and their application to the great problems of today. Now what is this American Heritage, Wilson? Well, McBurney, looking at 5,000 years of human history, I am very much impressed with the fact that at the time of our Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, for the first time an organized group of little men announced themselves for little men. The founding fathers were little men. Doctor, lawyer, merchant, chief. You can almost run down that line. Benjamin Rush, a doctor, and John Adams, a lawyer, and John Hancock, a merchant. Let's call Sam Adams a chief because he participated in the Boston Tea Party. At any rate, they said that little men banded together in common consent were the power, the government. But then they said another very interesting thing, and that is that this power was not to be permitted to push other little men around. Particularly in the Bill of Rights, they safeguarded the rights of individuals and minorities, so that down to the individual citizen in his home, the person of the little man was sacred and important. How would you describe the American heritage, Decker? Well, I would say that it was not only a government of little men, but it was a government of little men who were also very great men. Now, Wilson here knows a lot more about history than most of us at the round table here, since he's been discussing and studying history in terms of 5, 6, and 7, and 8,000 years. But I wonder if he would agree that the American heritage, more popularly known as American democracy, is probably the greatest experiment on a mass basis in known history in self-government. I certainly would. It is not always, of course, achieved its highest ideals. It has often fallen short of its goals. But I think it is fair to say that from its earliest beginnings, it has been government by consent rather than descent. That is, by agreement rather than by inheritance. Its approach to its problems has been pragmatic rather than dogmatic. And the solution of its problems has been through compromise rather than by divine, inherited, or self-appointed authority. Of course, I think we ought to remember that not all of the pre-revolutionary colonists actually believed in democracy. Back in 1691, for example, the conservative Massachusetts Bay Colony was violently opposed to any form of democracy. But John Wise, that great preacher from Ipswich, enunciated the American heritage as it was to prevail through the centuries when he exhorted the Bay colonists in these wonderful words. It needs must be a democracy. This is the form of government which the light of nature does highly value. Also, the natural equality of man amongst men must be duly favored. The end of all good government is to cultivate humanity and promote the happiness of all. And the good of every man in his rights is life, liberty, estate, and honor without injury or abuse to any. Now it seems to me that it was sentiments like these that were to be embodied a hundred years later in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and equally important, the Bill of Rights. How would you put it, Ellsworth? Well, I would put it in very general terms and say something like this, that the American heritage is whatever the citizen has that is not of his own efforts and his own making, the thing that he has acquired and been brought into the world to enjoy. To the American, I think this heritage shows up as principles and opportunities and obligations. For example, principles of governmental organization and group action based on respect for the human individual one by one. And secondly, opportunities for building his own life based on the idea that however much effort he exerts will be the thing that will make a difference. There are no barriers except effort and ability and individual initiative. And obligations also based on the assumption that the individual knows that his destiny depends on his participation. He knows that is true. If he fails in his job and does not live up to his obligations, then the whole structure collapses. Well, now, are these principles you men are enunciating here explicit, Decker, in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution and the Bill of Rights as you implied? Well, McBurney, I would agree with Ellsworth that they are explicit in the Constitution and the Declaration and the Bill of Rights. But I think even more important than their being explicit, they are implicit. The application, of course, of these principles has evolved and expanded with the evolution and the expanding nature of our national life. The American heritage was formulated in a revolutionary era. The fact that many Americans are inclined to forget. Times which, like our own today, try men's souls. Now, this revolution was economic, social, industrial, political, intellectual. It was also spiritual. Its philosophy was formulated by thinkers like Locke and Human England, the French Encyclopedist. But it is far more than a political philosophy. It was also a kind of religious faith that held at least three major beliefs. One, a belief in the essential dignity of human life and in man's perfectibility. No one ever dreamed that man would become perfect, but the idea that he could grow toward perfectibility was an important element of this religious belief. A faith in our ability to win out if we live intelligently and humanly. A belief that man's inhumanity to man can somehow be alleviated if truth and reason and goodwill are allowed to prevail. Now, there were two other beliefs that went along with it. One, in the necessity of freedom for the fullest realization of man's potentialities as a human being. And a third, a point that I don't think is stressed enough today. A belief that we possess not only the right, but the obligation to protect and fight for and expand these inalienable possessions. Yes, very interesting that if you go back to the very documents themselves, you will find some very specific statements. For example, in the Constitution itself, in the preamble, you recall those phrases in which they said the things that they were interested in putting down in black and white. They talked about establishing justice and they were interested in the whole country, the perfect union. And they were interested in promoting the general welfare. In other words, in spite of the individualism of that day, yet they understood clearly that they were doing all the things that they were proposing for the general welfare of the people. Then you recall back in the Declaration of Independence, I think it is, some very interesting statements too that were quite specific. They said if the American people don't like their government, they have the right to alter it and to abolish it and to institute new government. I think Jefferson advocated an actual revolution every 20 years. Well, I think he probably meant that. I hate to quote that because it's been too often taken out of its context. I don't think he really meant that we ought to have a revolution, but the idea of stirring things up about every 20 years and reevaluating what we're doing was implicit in the whole point of view of Jefferson. I want to say, Dicker and Ellsworth, that it is quite true that these values are implicit in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution. But as our 175 years have gone on, it has been found necessary to make certain implicit assumptions and values explicit. That comes in the extension of the community. Back in Greek democracy, these slaves, for example, were not included, and at first our slaves were not included. It was necessary to have an amendment with regard to the slaves. It was necessary to have an amendment with regard to women's rights and put the women into the community. Those are amendments, but there's also been a growth such as the growth of an economic system, which we call the capitalistic system, which has labor extremely important and extremely powerful within that system. That's true. And the interesting thing there is, and the unique thing about all of this is that as we make these reinterpretations, we try desperately to make them always in light of the general charter, you'll say. Right. And that, as you remember, was a very radical one, government based on consent. And so whenever we're working in the American tradition, we're doing these reinterpretations within the framework of those principles that were fairly clear and generous at that time. Now, in terms of this original heritage which you've been describing and the interpretations to which Ellsworth and Wilson have just referred, to make this a bit more specific, to what does this heritage commit us? For example, Deckard, do you think it commits us to the free enterprise system in our economic life? Well, I hesitate to use the word free enterprise. I believe in free enterprise, but I think that the phrase is tossed around too much by labor unions and the National Association of Manufacturers and we educators to cover a multitude of sins. The fact is that from the very beginning, there's always been more or less government control in our national life. The great debate in our domestic life revolves around the problem of how much and how little control we should have. But it was this same debate 150 years ago that divided Hamilton and Jefferson. Most Americans, and even many of the so-called New Dealers, believe that the less government, the better. But we know that too little government leads to anarchy just as too much leads to dictatorship. We have a mixed economy, and we had a mixed economy in the beginning. And in the future, it is my hope that in this mixed economy that we can promote as much home rule as possible. That is, we ought to have government decentralized in towns, cities, states. Good citizenship like charity really begins at home. I hope too that we can obtain a much greater degree of honesty and efficiency in all government units. I hope that we can continue our highly competitive economic system. I hope for an ever greater degree of social mobility in our national life and a lesser degree of distinction between groups. And finally, I hope in this mixed economy of the day and of the future for an ever greater degree of equality of opportunity for the youth of each succeeding generation. I would phrase it a little differently, Decker. I think that we are in a heritage which has the idea of free enterprise, and it is significant that we take that for granted on free enterprise or any change from free enterprise has to be justified over a period of time. It is a feature of our national life that what are originally left wing proposals by some third party coming in the space of 15 or 20 years to be embraced as proposals by some of the major parties. And there are usually some kind of limitation on the easy going system before. So we take the easy going system for granted and we work out a common consent of people in order to put a new limitation on that laissez-faire policy. Yes, that was the side of it that interested me particularly too. You just take it for granted, but you graft on the new interpretations you have to have in the interest of the old statement promoting the general welfare. And I think that's the point. Jefferson and all those men would have been horrified to hear anybody say that you think of the free enterprise system primarily in terms of the rights of the man who makes and sells things. I think they would have thought of it primarily in terms of the rights of the man who buys and consumes. Now that makes a very great difference, you understand. I don't think there's any argument amongst us. Does this heritage commit us to anything particular in the field of education, Decker? Well, from the earliest beginnings of our country, education has been considered essential to the strength of our way of life. Our founding fathers were all educated men and constantly in their letters and their diaries and their various writings, they were stressing education. In 1797 in his farewell address, for example, Washington said, promote then as an object of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of knowledge. In proportion as the structure of a government gives force to public opinion, it is essential that public opinion should be enlightened. And I think that statement summarizes the whole long tradition of American life with regard to education and our heritage. The men you are speaking of, I believe, all had a particular kind of education. Mr. Decker, they had what we call the classical kind, the old liberal arts kind of education, which they read the statements of the philosophers and so on. And yet it is rather interesting that as those men thought of the kind of education system that we had to have in this country, they included a broader base than that. They thought of vocational training. You recall Jefferson and agricultural training. And so we've had in this country to implement the idea of individual freedom and a variety of kinds of living. The development of a curricular pattern that is varied in scope, classical along with the freest kind of vocational training in our great industry. In that connection, I think it's true that Franklin founded the Pratt Institute in Philadelphia and Jefferson founded the University of Virginia. And from even long before we had a country as the United States, we had colleges and universities. Harvard, 1636, William and Mary, 1751, Dartmouth and Columbia, 1754. But even more interesting, I think, is the fact that as the settlers moved westward, almost their first act in establishing a new community, one was to establish a church and two, to establish a school of some sort. Between 1830 and 1850, more than 80 colleges were established as the settlers moved westward. And I think this is the great testimonial to our, to the basic importance we Americans have attached from the very beginning to our spiritual and our intellectual life. Well, Dicker, one of the experiences I've had is in entertaining visitors from educational institutions abroad, and they are astonished at the great variety of our education. The founding fathers, it is true, were educated men. I think it's true that there was only one professional educator among them, John Witherspoon, who was a college president. And they believed in education, but they did not believe in forcing a system of education. And what we have developed in our country is free enterprise in education with local control and great variety. The foreigner sees this as confusion and therefore weakness. We see it as strength because of the great opportunities it gives in a variety of opportunities. Isn't that true? Do you regard the, the great library system in America as a part of this tradition of ours, Eldridge? Well, I think so. I'm sure that Benjamin Franklin, as you recall when he started his first public library in the country, had that in mind. You recall that Yale University was founded as a collection of books. And then Andrew Carnegie, who came along later, you see, and gave many, many millions, I'm sure had in mind that unless there were some kind of institution to take hold at the point where the public school system ends, that this system would be imperfect. I'm sure we think of it as just the, the tool that the adult has in this country to use after the formal school system. And of course, this great program, Ellsworth, that you're going to undertake now with the help of the Ford Foundation, Money in the Field of Adult Education. That is simply an extension of what the great leaders of our country have believed from the very beginning. And after all, I think it was Jefferson who wanted to be remembered, not as president of the United States, but as the founder of the University of Virginia. And that idea was implicit from the very beginning, extended by men like Andrew Carnegie, and this whole field of education, which is so important if we are really to advance the American heritage. And then the variety of patterns too. The radio and the television and the movie and the newspaper and so on. It's all part of that. Does this heritage of ours commit us to, uh, to any kind of an international program, do you think? Yes, I think it definitely does. We have a common purpose in safeguarding the life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness of our people. It's interesting that the Founding Fathers weren't interested in security. We have become interested in security because we have found that we cannot safeguard life, liberty, and guarantee the pursuit of happiness without an extension of something similar to our way of life, something recognizable elsewhere in other lands. This goes back a long way. The Monroe Doctrine, uh, we think of it as being a, uh, phenomenon of the 20th century, World War I and so on. But we have gone on in contact, specific contact with other countries, for our whole national existence. And it is in terms of facing outward as Americans conscious of our heritage. Well, uh, don't you think we can say, uh, Wilson, that our country really has never been isolationist, even from the very beginning. We have, in one way or another, been concerned with Europe's and Asia's problems since the very founding of this nation. Our War of Independence, for example, involved France and Germany and England. Our Monroe Doctrine, as you say, was in, uh, was part of our foreign policy, but it was enforced by the British Navy. Our own country, as a matter of fact, forced the open door upon China and Japan. And it's rather amusing to read recently that Russia has claimed that we interfered unduly in her affairs when we acquired Alaska from the Tsars back in the 19th century. And they want us to return Alaska to them. Uh, I think probably it can be said that there's been no major crisis in the world, in modern history, in which our foreign policy has not been deeply concerned. And further, I want to add that I can't believe that any substantial group of Americans seriously believes that our country, with less than 7% of the population of the world, can live unto itself and survive. I want to get in one point, Mr. Bernie. Don't you sometimes shudder a little bit at our arrogance when we send missions all over the world to tell other parts of the world how to do things in the American way, set up the school system, or any other system? Does that ever worry you any? Well, as a matter of fact, uh, I think this is relevant here. Uh, Mr. Wilson on our panel has a book, The Burden of Egypt, in which he says this on page 78. He's an Egyptologist, you know. Together with the process of coming of age in Egypt, where optimism and self-confidence bordering upon bumptiousness, and an assurance that the Egyptian way was so good that it was valid for all time. Now, are we falling into that same kind of bumptiousness here today? I think we can't possibly sell, to use that word, our way of life, without a knowledge that the way of life had an element of humility in it. That element of humility is the recognition of the rights of many, the common consent factor. And that doesn't involve bumptiousness or arrogance, but does involve a kind of humility. I would agree entirely to that. I don't think the word is to sell our way of life around the world, because that implies the white man's burden and colonialism, imperialism, and all the rest of it. But I wonder if we can't substitute the word share some of the things that we have. That doesn't mean that we have to underwrite the rest of the world. But we have great opportunities, great possibilities in the field of technical know-how, as the businessman says. We have many things that other countries are willing to have if we don't try to impose it upon them. In this connection, I might say that our reputation abroad in far too many countries is that we're simply a Frankenstein, a technological giant for manufacturing machines and gadgets. The mayor of Delhi, India, Mayor Singh, has said to a small group of us not so long ago, When the West is purely materialistic in conception as well as in practice, and most of the ills of the modern world are due to this materialism, we feel there is much that the West can learn from us. Now part of this, of course, is a chip on the shoulder attitude. But India has thought that she's had sort of a corner on the spiritual resources of the world, and that we had a corner on the purely materialistic. I don't think those are true. I think that the American heritage is far more than bathtubs and turbans and gadgets, although it includes all those things. I certainly think it's a lot more than Hollywood. I think it is a spiritual point of view toward life that is embodied in the Declaration of Independence, in the Bill of Rights, in our Constitution, in our great creative culture. And these things we must make available, not to impose them, Mr. Wilson, on the rest of the world, but at least to share them with the rest of the world. It's largely a matter of good manners and of good taste. Yes, for granted there. It's a little touchy, though, when you go over on a mission, financed by your government, to advise them. It gets kind of close, you see, to telling them. That's the critical point on this. Do you think this American heritage you've been describing here is as applicable today as it was a hundred or two hundred years ago? Remember, we've lost our old physical frontiers. If a man loses his job today as a result of this economic system of ours, he can't go out to the west, as my grandfather did in File on Land. That opportunity is gone. We face new technological developments which call for a kind of high-speed efficiency and specialization. And we've acquired a new position in the world scene. What I'm asking, I guess, is this. Can you... Are we trying to apply a horse and buggy creed to jet plane age? I want to say one sentence and then I want to hear what you have to say on that, John. I think the whole thing is entirely applicable, largely because it is a point of view that we're really talking about and a method of solving human problems. And the method and the point of view are rather perpetual in their applicability. And therefore, even though the details change, the point of view is still sound. As your moderator, if I may be permitted to say this, I think Ellsworth has his, in my opinion, his finger on the essence of this. That is, in these documents, in the Constitution, in the Bill of Rights, you have a credo, you have a point of view, you have a set of values and a way of dealing with them. To me, that's the American heritage in essence. McBurney, I want to talk about this materialism that Decker mentioned. It's perfectly true that technology has made changes. It seems to have made man the slave of the machine. It seems to have built up great impersonal cities in which the individual counts for nothing. But in terms of large numbers of Americans, it has freed them. A classic example is probably the Model T Ford and the farmer. But I think even more telling an example is the housewife in the kitchen, who no longer has domestic servants, but who has free time as she did not have in the last century because of the technological advances. I would agree with Wilson, but I think we Americans have got to keep in mind, not only for our own good, but because of our position in the world affairs, that while we have all these wonderful instruments for streamlined modern living, we also have, while we have a large amount of personal freedom, we also have the highest divorce rates in the world, we have the tawdriest entertainment, and the largest number of stomach ulcers per capita. And it is these things by which we are too often judged abroad. The battle against ignorance, poverty, disease, and social injustice still remains in our country. We still have to battle to maintain our liberties and freedoms. They still have to be continuously won. And that is the great thing to me about the American heritage. It is a thing that is never fully achieved. It is a thing that we constantly struggle toward. And that is what makes it such an exciting thing. There is another part of our heritage which we have not mentioned. I am thinking of our fields and streams, our natural resources. And we see a lot of them out in your state going down the great river. Well, I am not sure that I can get home to Kansas City this afternoon, but it only dramatized what is happening in the physical world of our country. I knew you could stay and see some of this tawdry entertainment. Throughout the United States, we have lost from one third to one half of our topsoil in little more than a century. Many of our raw materials are already expanded. Lead, zinc, copper, tin, manganese, uranium, etc. I think it is part of the American heritage to start protecting its physical heritage and developing and expanding it in the future. What else can we do to conserve and strengthen the American heritage, Wilson? The only thing we can do is to try to understand it and try to understand what it means in our activity. It is the old matter of faith and good works. That we have to have a faith in what we have and then we have to apply it in terms of the other fellow. Do you think we make a mistake sometime of hiding behind symbols and labels growing out of this heritage that don't have very much meaning? That's right. We certainly do. We have to redefine. I am sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, What Does the American Heritage Mean? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Alfie Ellsworth, Clarence R. Decker, and John A. Wilson. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Our speakers today, and I think our listening audience, will be interested in the question we're discussing next week. Are we headed for moral bankruptcy? Our guests will be the Reverend Charles M. Crowe, pastor of the First Methodist Church of Wilmette, Illinois. Alfred B. Hockey, chairman of the Layman's National Committee and mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois. And Ben Cartman, associate editor of Cornet Magazine, who's written an article on this subject. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Are we headed for moral bankruptcy? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. After learning speak about the минишее tortoise, weCoffer expected boasted hell. We areniые filmmakers are mixed in such a way. What do we really do? A segur Kiss of humanет