Good morning. Well, it's half past eight on this last day of August, 1949. Time for Margaret Arlen. Time for Harry Marble, too, of course, and since it's the last day of August, it's time for September. And time to meet our very fascinating guest this morning. We're very proud to present to you John M. Murtaugh, whom I know that you've been reading about in the papers a great deal. Certainly has. Commissioner Murtaugh is really doing a big job for all of us. Well, just so you won't feel that you're not doing a big job, Harry, why don't you give us the weather report? Do you think that'll fix me up? Well, the temp, I don't know, a little messy this morning. Temperature 71 degrees in New York, and the humidity is really up there, 92%. I felt that humidity when I came in. It was on my coat, my raincoat. You're covered with humidity. 92%, and today the weatherman says it'll be partly cloudy with a few scattered thundershowers, and the highest temperature between 80 and 85, so it won't be too hot. Tonight, partly cloudy, the lowest temperature in the middle 60s, and tomorrow partly cloudy with the highest temperature near 80. We've had quite a spread on this date so far as temperatures go, Margaret. The highest on record for the 31st of August was 92 one year, and the lowest for the date registered is 53, so it can be quite a spread. So right in the middle, 80 to 85 today, quite normal and average for this date. Very good. Now, I've done my end. Yes, you've done your big job. That's a man who does another big job, a very big job. I'd like so much to have you meet John Murtaugh, Commissioner of Investigation of the City of New York. Of course, we've been hearing a great deal about the commissioner recently in connection with the theater ticket situation. Commissioner Murtaugh, you know one thing I've been wondering. Have you seen South Pacific and Death of a Salesman yourself? Yes, they're two wonderful shows. Aren't they, though? I could see South Pacific half a dozen times. That is, if you could only get the tickets, Commissioner. Did you see them before you started investigating the ticket situation? No, I only got to see them relatively recently. Commissioner Murtaugh, I'm very intrigued with your title, Commissioner of Investigation. It sounds so, well, I don't know, very exciting. It's actually a misleading title. The office is not primarily interested in investigating the way the FBI is or the district attorney. We're merely fact-finders for the mayor. I don't believe I ever quite realized that. Quite either. Well, you know, in just about any large company, there's usually a young fellow who's close to the president of the firm. If something is wrong in the accounting department or the engineering department, the boss can call in the chief engineer or the auditor and find out what's going on. Or he can call this fellow and tell him to smoke around for a couple of days. The fellow finds out what the trouble is and tells the president. All the boss needs is that bird's eye view. Well, this office, the Department of Investigation, is like that. And you're really a troubleshooter. Yes. We service the mayor whenever any special situation arises. Of course, we have a pretty large staff, about 80. Is that so? The mayor is so busy, he needs a lot of troubleshooters. All he has to do is pick up the phone and tell me about something that's bothering him. Then we go to work and usually have an answer by the end of the day. I imagine, Commissioner, it's a nice, concise answer, too, that gives all the information the mayor needs and gives it to him very quickly. If it's a written report, it's seldom more than two or three pages because we really want him to read it. He has no time to pour through a lot of detail. No, of course not. Do you ever find the trouble yourself? Frequently. But the investigations of fuel oil, milk, theater tickets, were all done at the mayor's prodding. Of course, many other routine things come to us through our complaint bureau. Some people who come in or write to us are crackpots, but many are sincere. Sometimes the outcome may affect just the individual involved, but sometimes we'll come across something substantial. What might some of those things be, for instance, Commissioner? Well, the peer investigation started with a complaint from a fellow who said he wasn't getting the proper treatment from the city department. Eventually, we found out that far from being mistreated, he was driving a city official, and eventually he and two others were indicted for this. That ought to teach him to complain. Yeah, I think so. Well, what I'm trying to get across is that we're more a fact-finding office than an investigation bureau. So much of what we do is of a non-police nature. Strange, Commissioner. You don't hear much of that side of your work. You only read about the more spectacular situations because they're more newsworthy. Well, what's an example of the work that you do that isn't involved with dishonest situations, Commissioner? Well, let me see. When Mayor O'Dwyer came into office, he had the Idlewild project on his hand. The former mayor had such an interest in this project that he really ran it himself. Because of this, it wasn't easy to fit the pieces together and find out the status of the airport. The mayor turned to us and asked for a complete report on Idlewild. That sounds like a very big job. It was. We put engineers, lawyers, accountants to work on it, and at the end of two months, we had a very thorough report. That was a perfectly normal, routine job for the Department of Investigation. What a useful office you must be to the mayor. Remarkable, isn't it? Whenever he doesn't know about something, all he has to do is call you. I wonder what smart mayor thought of setting up your office in the first place. Well, it arose out of the Boss Tweed investigation back in 1873. Yes. You see, old Boss Tweed made off with the city treasury. So referred, yes. And they thought that in the future, someone ought to check up on the accounts to see that it didn't happen again. Very fine idea. They set up three commissioners at the time to check on the funds. But while they were at it, the commissioners also kept their eyes on other aspects of the city government. And I guess everything is connected in some way with the funds that are spent. Yes. And it was natural that they began to study efficiency and irregularity. The investigation functions became greater and greater. And now the department is a fact-finding bureau more than anything else. Commissioner Murtagh, I'd like to ask you a very frank question. She is nothing if not frank. Yes. Do you think that New York, do you think that this is an honest city? I think it is a very honest city. Good. In the last four years, I'd not only say that we've found very little graft, but that there is very little graft and corruption in the city government. That's good to hear. And since your office has been so vigilant, and it has, you would certainly know, Commissioner. Commissioner Murtagh, I know a lot of our listeners have been very interested in your investigation of the milk situation. After all, that's something that affects every single one of us in our daily budgets. Well, that's something we're still working on, Margaret. For some 60 years, monopoly and price fixing have marked the milk situation, it seems to me. As early as 1891, the state attorney general was trying to do something about it. In 1946, when price controls were lifted, we felt that something had to be done, finally, to put an end to the situation. And I understand that you've done a whole lot. Well, we have made some progress, but we're by no means through. I feel that this isn't a fact-finding job. The facts are known. What is needed is to make the facts about milk prices well known to the public. I don't think there should be any secret about these shenanigans in the milk industry. We have succeeded in breaking down the homogenized racket. Would you explain that a bit, Commissioner? Well, originally, all the consumers in New York City were charged a cent extra for homogenized milk. That was plain larceny because it cost less than a tenth of a cent a quart to produce homogenized milk. We decided the only way to lick this was to let the public know about it, and we did. After six months, the milk companies decided that it was enough to charge half a cent extra for homogenized milk. And now they've eliminated the overcharge almost completely. Since homogenized milk makes up 70 to 80 percent of their stock, this is a big saving. Well, of course, a big saving for each of us individually and certainly for the city as a whole. I estimate that New Yorkers are saving about $10 million a year because of this. Good heavens, isn't it amazing how those little bits of tenths of cents add up when you have 8.5 million people? But you didn't take any court action or anything like that in this situation. You just let the public know the facts, didn't you? Yes, and the milk companies felt the pressure from the public. Well, that certainly is a very substantial saving, that $10 million, Commissioner. Well, we've whittled the price down and down, but the gains are superficial, I'm convinced. All the marks of price fixing and monopoly are still there, but we'll see what else we can do. Good to see you. You really have your finger in a lot of pies, haven't you, Commissioner Murtaugh? Yeah. We get pretty much to cover the city as the mayor does. Now, let's see. Theater tickets and milk. I know you helped straighten out the oil situation, too. That was a pretty bad thing. It affected just about every one of us. Let me see, when was that? In the winter of the... Was it that cold winter? 47? Yes, and 48, yes. That's right. The mayor turned to us at that time. First, he turned to the police department, and they marshaled supplies of fuel oil for the more needy cases. That alleviated the early crisis, but in the great snowfall, a terrific black market developed. Unscrupulous people cornered the market, and the city shivered away. Yes. That was the situation when the mayor called us in. Now, how did you go about breaking up this black market, Commissioner? It seems like such a huge job. How do you know where to start it? Well, the police department had the names of some 800 people in the fuel oil industry, both wholesale and retail. I came back to my office from City Hall and sent out subpoenas to these 800, calling for their books and records. We asked them about the quantities of fuel oil they had on hand, the prices they were being charged by wholesalers, and the prices they were charging their customers. But couldn't they fake the records? Yes, but remember, we had all the accounts from everyone. That's right. Accountants went over them and spotted the chiselers very easily. We gave a publicity bath to those people, and the prices dropped almost immediately to normal. Certainly have variety in that job of yours, Commissioner. There's no end of variety. There are always a hundred things going on at the same time. Some are relatively minor, but at least a half dozen interesting ones are happening all the time. Of course, we're still active in the theater ticket investigation. Tell me, how did that all begin, Commissioner Murtaugh? Well, the mayor had heard reports around town that prices were completely out of hand. Of course, this is an evil that's been with us for a great many years. Do you know that when Charles Dickens came to the country to give readings, tickets sold for $50 and $60? Good heavens. Way back there. That made Charles Dickens definitely the South Pacific of his days. It's nothing new. The theater is at its height now. The greatest productions in the world are playing here in New York. And, of course, there's a great theater going public in this city. And add to that all the visitors to New York who want to see the shows, and, of course, you have trouble. Yes. When the mayor asked us to do a little troubleshooting, we thought at first we'd get to know the situation by trying to buy tickets for the big hits. You mean yourselves. Well, did you get charged $100 a pair? No, because we gave up the idea. Actually, you had to be known to a theater ticket broker before he'd said your tickets would be at prices. Sure. And then we thought we'd be subject to the criticism that we had enticed or entrapped the broker to sell. Yeah, you mean first you made the broker break the law, and then you hauled him into court for doing it. That's what we were worried about. So we decided to make a frontal attack and subpoena all the books and records of the brokers. Frankly, I wasn't too hopeful. Why not? Well, as the newspapers pointed out, it seemed a very naive thing to think that their books would show what they were doing. Surely. But the newspapers overlooked a state statute that prescribes what a theater ticket broker has to keep a record of in his books. I see. Then you could get them on one thing or another. Yes, they had to have definite entries with information about prices, or we found that they had kept the books irregularly. I think the way the investigation has turned out, Commissioner, definitely shows that the way you attacked the problem wasn't so naive after all. Well, we've revoked the licenses of some 23 ticket brokers out of some 70, and another seven revocations are pending. Right now, we're working on plans to make these gains permanent. Well, I know, Commissioner Murtaugh, that everyone is hoping that the ticket scalping situation is really smashed this time, once and for all. We hope so, too. The situation has been likened to prohibition, you know. When you have a scarce commodity, people are willing to pay any prices. Sure. I don't think the comparison is too accurate. After all, ticket distribution is relatively a small thing. There are relatively few tickets and few channels for them to go through. We can find the means to police these methods of distribution. Certainly, we hope so. Everyone's been so discouraged by the difficulty of getting tickets. I think it's awfully important from the standpoint of the theater. I think a great percentage of the public has lost interest in the theater because of the futility of getting tickets. But I think we're really making progress. Hmm. Commissioner Murtaugh, I have a terrible confession to make. Why, Margaret Allen? I know that you've been very active in the waterfront investigation, too. But, you know, I'm afraid I don't understand that situation very well at all. I can't blame you, Margaret. We've spent eight months just trying to get the basic facts about conditions on the waterfront. That makes me feel an awful lot better. Yeah, you'll leave your mind. Well, there was a lot of talk about gangsters and racketeers on the waterfront condition. Yes, but the police force on the waterfront has been increased. And they're doing an excellent job. Basically, here's what the situation is. There are roughly 30,000 men working on the waterfront when there should be only 20,000. There just isn't work for more. As a result, virtually none of them are making enough money to support their families properly. And, of course, so far you haven't worked out a solution yet. No, but at least we have most of the facts, and that's a good beginning. Excellent beginning. Mr. Murtaugh, it sounds as though you spend at least 20 hours out of every 24 at your office investigating. On occasion, but I shouldn't have to do this when I'm properly organized. I remember one year at Christmas I planned to ease off on my work early to get in the spirit of things. You couldn't be in the Christmas spirit particularly if you were spending your time investigating people. No, that's why I thought I'd ease off. Well, Christmas, I believe, was on a Tuesday, and I found myself working on Saturday, Sunday, Monday. You know I worked right through Christmas. Oh, dear me. Never did get in the spirit of it. You certainly do watch our city for us. I guess sometimes that can't be helped. Mr. Murtaugh, I can't tell you how much we've enjoyed talking with you this morning. Somehow I feel as though we've all come very much closer to our city government today. I hope so. Of course, we have one more question for you. I can't let you go without answering. Aren't you beginning to feel commissioned a little as though we were investigating you with you this morning? A little, but go ahead. We'll come back to you in a while for the answer to this. I wonder, in order to acquaint us with the problems of city government, what do you think are the three most interesting jobs in the city government of New York? Well, that's a little tough right on the spur of the moment. Well, if you'd like. You don't have to answer it right this minute. No, we'll give you about ten minutes to think about that. All right. Have you sent me a free copy of the iced coffee booklet yet? It's put out by the Pan American Coffee Bureau. Since summer is so nearly over, you've probably learned how to make good iced coffee already, but you'll want to get this booklet for all the other delicious coffee recipes. Now, I guarantee you that you'll work up an appetite just leaping through the booklet. For instance, doesn't the name coffee souffle make you hungry? You're running this first. That's just one of the many unusual recipes in this booklet. Well, you'll want to know, too, how to make coffee prune whip and coffee chiffon pie. Chiffon, that's a new one. Chiffon pie, yes. Chiffon pie, yes. Chiffon. Well, in order to get back into the spirit of things, may I tell you that you can make coffee prune whip and coffee chiffon pie. Craig's booklet will give you ideas for desserts that you'll use all year round. And it's very easy to get this free booklet. You just write the words coffee booklet on a postcard and send it to Margaret Arlen, Station WCBS, New York 22, New York. Just a penny postcard will get you this free coffee booklet. So how about sending for that one today, huh? Tell me, are you a mother of a teenager or an aunt or a friend of a pretty 15-year-old? If you are, Harry and I want to urge you again to get that 15-year-old to enter her photograph in the Lux Radio Theater contest. You see, Lux Radio Theater is 15 years old on the air this year. And to help celebrate, we're having a contest to help find the most beautiful 15-year-old girl in the United States. Do you know, Margaret, it's always seemed to me that 15 and 16 are practically the prettiest ages for a girl. Oh, indeed, indeed. If you know a charming, attractive girl born in 1934, would you send her a photograph to me, Margaret Arlen, here at WCBS? And on the back of the photograph, please write the girl's name and address and her birth date. No photographs will be acknowledged or returned, and all of them become the property of Lux Radio Theater. The decision of the judges will be final, and it's understood that names and pictures of winners may be used in subsequent publicity. But most important of all is that all photographs must reach me not later than Monday, September 12th, and the judges then will select the six most attractive girls. And then all of you come into this at that point because you will see pictures of the six finalists in grocery stores and in newspapers, and you will vote for the one that you think is the loveliest of all. And just listen to the prizes that each one of these six girls will get. For each one of the six winners in this section, there will be three del Sarto portraits from the studio of Bradford Bacharach, photographer for women. And there'll be a beauty kit of Harriet Hubbard or teenage cosmetics, too. And the Columbia long-playing attachment, which can be easily attached to any radio phonograph or radio or television set to adapt them for playing the sensational New Columbia long-playing records. And a matched ensemble of costume jewelry styled by Trafari. There'll be a $50 wardrobe of long-lasting Parfum Cordage imported from France. And the $25 Elgin American compact in sterling silver and shimmering 14-carat gold. See, I don't think we can get Dr. Marks delivered in person, though. No, but it'll be fair. Yes, that's it. And there'll also be a fitted evening bag by Evans and a dozen pair of Gotham gold-striped nylon stockings in the exciting new shades. Now, that is all the prizes that will go to each of the six winners. Now, just listen to the additional prizes that will go to the one girl who is finally voted by you, the loveliest of the six. It'll be a 14-carat gold disc that was precious Oriental rubies as attached to a 14-carat gold woven chain. And it's from Lambert Brothers Jewelers, 60th and Lexington. There'll be a solid gold Lady Elgin Rissbach. And a day and night ensemble by Judy and Jill. That's valued at $100, consisting of a botany suit and a Selenese evening dress. And a $200 three-piece set of Hartman luggage, too. And to top it off, a lovely silver fox fur from Harry J. Koo, one of New York's leading fur craftsmen. And in addition to that, the final winner will have her photograph entered in the national competition for the title of the most beautiful 15-year-old girl in the United States. And if she is selected as the national winner, she'll get a trip to Hollywood and a lot of other wonderful things that are too numerous to mention now. Makes me wish I could be 15 again. Yeah. What an idle wish. I never fool the judges, I know that. Not these judges. No. They're very smart judges, Margaret. There's Harry Carnover, head of the famous model agency. Marion Glendinning, who writes Teen Talk for the World Telegram. Harry Hennigson, whom I'm sure you know. Yes, Harry came in a few months ago to tell us about his comic strips in the Herald Tribune, Penny and our Bill. That's right. And the other judge is Claire Glass, who is editor of the popular teenage magazine Calling All Girls. Now, let me see. Did we get everything in on that? I hope so. There's so many points to cover. We don't want to miss any of them. But the big point is to get that photograph in now. Don't forget, it has to be in before September 12th. And just send it to Margaret Arlen, Station WCBS, New York 22, New York. Well, let me please do that right away, too, because we want every single 15-year-old girl around here to get into this contest. And I'm awfully anxious to see your pictures myself, and I know the judges are, so will you get them in today? And the address again is just Margaret Arlen, Station WCBS, New York 22, New York. Well, we have two questions for you right now. First, you're going away over Labor Day, and second, when you lock up your house, will your valuables really be protected from fire and theft? Yeah, now we're not trying to alarm you, but that isn't the idea at all. But we do have to face facts, and the best way to protect your valuables is with a safe deposit box. Now, that is really a sound investment in security. Well, we'd like to suggest that you get a safe deposit box at the nearest office of Manufacturer's Safe Deposit Company. Now, that's an affiliate of Manufacturer's Trust Company. That is an awful lot more sensible than hiding your jewelry in the bottom of a drawer in the sugar bowl or something. Certainly is. Big modern fire and shock-resistant vaults safeguard jewelry and bonds and deeds and discharge papers and all of those things that just can't be replaced. And remember that you and you alone have the key, the only key, that will open your safe deposit box. Now, the cost is trivial. It's less than a postage stamp, a three-cent postage stamp a day. So look up the nearest office of Manufacturer's Trust Company in your phone book right now and protect your valuables. Well, Harry, the day certainly wouldn't be complete if we didn't hear your almanac. What do you have for us this morning? Well, I thought of several things for this morning, Margaret. First, I thought of telling you about the anniversary of the nut. Oh? Not the nut we eat, but the nut that holds machinery together. Then I thought of telling you about the first earthquake of any consequence in this country, but in honor of our guest this morning, Commissioner Murtaugh, I thought I should do an almanac about the government. Did you find one for the state? I certainly did. Back on August 31st in 1870, civil service examinations were introduced into England, and a year later, Congress set up civil service here. The idea was to hold examinations and then give government jobs to those who made the highest marks. This was unheard of. Before this, you got a job if you were a friend of someone in political circles. Now, this was known as the spoil system, which comes from the old saying that the victor belongs to spoils. This had been a good old Washington practice for many years. A lot of people didn't like to see the spoiled system pass out of existence. Well, the spoiled people. Yeah, they weren't for that at all. In fact, even though Congress set up civil service in 1871, Congress wouldn't grant it an appropriation. That's a fine thing. It's as good as no civil service at all. That's right, except that the appropriation finally did go through. Not that year. In fact, it didn't go through until 12 long years later. But it all began on this date, August 31st in 1870, when England set the pace for this country by setting up civil service examinations. And that's my almanac for today, August 31st. I have two magic letters when it comes to keeping your house spotless all the time, and I'll bet you can guess what they are. CN. I wish you'd let CN go to work for you. You'll find that it's really so easy to have your house the way you like it, shiny and fresh all the time. Well, the secret of this is that CN solution. Yes, indeed. You just dissolve two teaspoons of CN in a quart of water, and half your work is done right there. That CN solution will work wonders all through the house. Remember, it not only cleans, but it disinfects and deodorizes at the same time. Yes, the fact that it's a three-way cleanser makes it invaluable for floors and woodwork, and the tile and linoleum, and around damp spots, drains, and especially in closets and cupboards that are closed up to keep them fresh. CN eliminates all that staleness immediately. That's right. And don't forget CN for the garbage appeal. Gee, I spent a lot of time around that garbage. You do work so hard. Why, I do, certainly. I don't know how people get along with that. Well, you certainly want to protect your families from health when there's sickness in the home with CN, too. Remember, it's a disinfectant as well as a cleanser and a deodorizer. So just buy a bottle of CN today at your neighborhood store. The bottle is packed in the familiar orange carton with a gable top. Well, Arlen, me darling, what have you planned for us for tomorrow? Oh, we're going to hear about an amazing trip that Mr. Cecil A. Moore, or Cecil A. Moore, as the case may be, he's going to make that trip, Harry, and you're going to be very pleased when you hear how Mr. Moore pronounces his A's. Why, how does Mr. Moore pronounce his A's? Well, he told me he was born in Gardner, Maine. Gardner, Maine! Yeah! That's wonderful. Gardner, Maine. What is this trip Mr. Moore's planned? Well, he's going by dog sled from Fairbanks, Alaska to Lewiston, Maine, his hometown. He's certainly going a long way out of his way, isn't he, to get home? Well, no, no, it's a very special kind of trip. Mr. Moore spent several years in Alaska, he's explored the Yukon Territory in Canada, really knows a wonderful amount of information about that part of the world. Why will he be in to tell us what he'll be seeing and why he's going on such a trip? By dog sled? Yes, and he's from Maine. And I'm going to find somebody from North Carolina, if I just will. It takes forever. It takes forever. There's going to be somebody from North Carolina. Mr. Murtaugh isn't from North Carolina. Where are you from? No, I'm a native New York. Oh, good for you. Well, I hope that most of you tuned in early enough this morning to meet our Commissioner of Investigation, John Murtaugh. We've learned so much from talking with him. We're going to learn more now because we've given him one more question. Commissioner Murtaugh, what do you think are the three most fascinating jobs in the city government here in New York? That's putting you on the spot, isn't it? I really don't think so. I think we'd all agree the mayor has the most fascinating, the most interesting job. And probably the most demanding. Yes, unquestionably. Second to that, I would put my own job and that of police commissioner. Mm-hmm. I think those three are the most fascinating jobs because more than any other job, they bring us into contact with the public. Mm-hmm. We really have a great deal of direct contact with the public. I'm sure you do. In my department, we have a complaint bureau, access to which can be had by anyone in this town. Mm-hmm. Unfortunately, too few people are aware of it, but you'd be surprised at the number of people that do regularly either phone to the complaint bureau or at 50 Pine Street or come there in person and tell us about their troubles. It doesn't, they don't necessarily have to do directly with the city government, but most anything that is bothering them and which we feel we can do something to alleviate. Mm-hmm. We're there to serve. We're glad to hear about it. Well, that is fine. You will have lots of calls, I think. Maybe. Yeah. Of course, the mayor's job is a terrifically big one. It is. A demanding job. It's a very demanding job because it's grown in recent years. Mm-hmm. People today call upon the mayor for most anything. Mm-hmm. You take the milk situation, for example. The mayor would not, 20 years ago, have been called upon to help out in a situation such as that. It's become so accessible to the people in the city. I think it's a proper development, but it's a development that's brought about a tremendous burden for the person who holds that office. Of course it has. But it is really enlightened city government when people who are in the city can have access to the city officials like that. Well, Commissioner of Investigation Murtaugh, this has been very interesting, and I'm so grateful to you for coming in this morning. We're so proud to have had you as our guest. It was a very pleasant thing here, Margaret. Thank you. And I hope you'll all join us again tomorrow morning at 8.30 when Margaret Arlen will be back with another guest, Cecil Moore, who is going somewhere by dog sled. Way out of the way, I think. Yeah, but we'll see. Until tomorrow, this is Harry Marble inviting you to stay tuned for Bob Hite and the 9 o'clock news, which follows in the morning. Why don't you let him plan his own trip? Goodbye, everyone. The pleasing informality of Margaret Arlen and Harry Marble is yours to enjoy each weekday morning over WCBS AM and FM New York. We'll see you next time on Saturday. Look at the final eight o'clock. Thanks for listening. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.