Distinguished guests, fellow members of the Canadian Society of New York, and friends, I welcome you most heartily to our Society's 55th Annual Dinner. I particularly warmly welcome the ladies tonight. As you know, this is the only dinner at which we have the ladies as our guests. And ladies, this should give you an idea how your husbands behave at our other functions during the year. And now, I would like to introduce to you our guest speaker from Canada, the Right Honourable L.B. Pearson. Mr. Pearson is an outstanding international figure and is well known throughout the world. And we as Canadians are very proud of his achievements. It would take me a very long time to give you a complete summary of Mr. Pearson's career, and also to give you a complete list of the international conferences in which Mr. Pearson has participated in the course of his rapid and brilliant career. And in any event, I would only be passing on information already well known to you. I will say, however, that the rich natural resources of Canada are not solely responsible for the rapid growth of Canada. A big contributing factor is good government and confidence in the government. And as long as we have men like Mr. Pearson in the government, we need to have no fear of the future of Canada. I am very proud and honored to introduce to you the Right Honourable L.B. Pearson, Secretary of State for External Affairs, Mr. Pearson. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. VisThrough Holland. Mr. Roda Dask. Mr. Erich Lars. Ladies and Gentlemen. I thank you in the first place, Mr. Chairman, for your kind introduction. I am glad there is somebody in New York who feels so friendly toward the government in Canada. My pleasure at being here tonight. this is not the first dinner of the Canadian society that I have attended. It increased by the fact that I am appearing on the program with my old friend and colleague in international work, Dean Rusk. He and I have worked together now for a number of years. We haven't always agreed on everything, he has made some speeches which I thought were pretty silly. I know that I made one that he thought was terrible once, about a year ago, but whatever we may have said and done has not I think ever interfered with our affection and respect for each other and that I may add has nothing to do with the fact that we both graduated from the same college at Oxford. The pleasure has been also increased by the fact that I have been sitting beside another old friend and colleague from the battles of late success and other places, Mr. John Foster Dulles. Who has labored so hard, so unselfishly and with such devotion and with such success for the cause of peace in the Pacific. And we are all in his debt for what he has accomplished in that labor. When I was here last, Mr. Chairman, seven years ago, and I had a much happier and easier job than I have now, I had an ambassador in Washington, with all respect for Mr. Rawls. I remember talking about, at that time, the close and friendly relations between the two great North American democracies. Well, they remain close and friendly and we have to keep them that way. That will require, I think, on our part in Canada, an appreciation of the enormous responsibilities, the Atlantean burden, which this country is shouldering to keep men free from the aggressive menace of Soviet Communist imperialism. It will require, I think, also on the part of the United States, knowledge and understanding of Canada, its present position, and, if I may say so, its potential greatness. We in Canada sometimes, in fact very often, complain that Americans don't know enough about our country and our people. These complaints occasionally get amusing confirmation to support them. Such as the recent proposal of a Congressman that England should sell Canada to the United States. And that any war debt should be a credit against the purchase. Well, that proposal, which lightened another wise dreary week in Ottawa, that proposal resulted in a letter reaching me from New York, from someone who apparently was a bit disgruntled about the administration here. There are a few people who are disgruntled about the administration in Canada, so that kind of thing is bound to happen in any democratic country. And this letter ran as follows. My dear Minister Pearson, I see where you turned down Representative Sheehan's proposal we annex Canada to the United States. I have a better offer. I propose the United States buy Canada at any cost. Money is no object. You will bear me out on this. He's been looking at our budget. Money is no object. You will bear me out on this. And we pass, said my correspondent, a constitutional amendment to move the capital to Ottawa. And, he added, only Canadian borns will be allowed to hold office from President and the Cabinet down. Well, he told his letter, I do hope this offer will interest you. Well, it interested me very much. And I pass it on to you as a brilliant idea which came from the Bronx. There are times, I must add, there are times when we are able to take advantage of the confusion, which still exists in some quarters, over our exact national position and states. It makes it somewhat easier for us on certain occasions to emphasize our North American ties and on others our Commonwealth connection. If that sounds cynical, it's not meant to be so. It merely reflects the fact that Canada cannot escape its dual destiny as a North American nation and as a member of a worldwide Commonwealth of Nations. And we must therefore make absolutely certain that these two roles, our North American and our Commonwealth, do not conflict. If the effort raises some doubt here and there in other countries as to what Canada actually is, we must do what we can to remove it, not so much by words, but by our actions and our policies. I remember in this connection when I was at an international meeting not long ago, made an informal and tentative suggestion to a foreign delegate on some matter. He asked me whether I had secured permission from the British to put it forward. Well, a short time previously, when I was mounting the rostrum at the United Nations Assembly to make a speech, a friend in the gallery told me that he heard a whisper behind him in broken English, there goes Atchison's mouthpiece. Well, what chance has a Canadian foreign minister to be Canadian? The fact is that we in Canada now are, I think, more Canadian than ever. We have a greater confidence in ourselves, in our growth, in our destiny, than we ever had before. We know, of course, that if an atomic war breaks out, no country will have much of a future. But subject to that ultimate catastrophe, Canada is very definitely on the march. And all the evidence, economic, demographic, financial, shows that we are going somewhere. Why it won't be long now before a Canadian storekeeper will be refusing to take an American dollar bill at below Canadian cost. And I'd love to be in the store when that happens. If, however, we are inclined to become too inflated over this proud position of our currency, we might recover by examining a recent Canadian cartoon which depicted the Canadian and United States dollars as two hobos walking along a railway track. The Canadian dollar hobo had rather breathlessly run up alongside the American, who turned and looked at him and remarked, OK, OK, so we're both equal, but neither of us is worth very much. I would like to think, however, that more than our dollar is sound in Canada. Because after all, a currency is merely one reflection, and not necessarily the most important, of the health and stability of a nation. We have laid the foundations, political, economic, and social, for the building of a strong and vigorous nation in the North. And the superstructure is now going off apace. Of course, it's not likely to become an Empire State Building. But it will be large enough, and I hope strong enough, and solid enough, for the increasing number of people who will live in it, and for the increasing activity which will take place under its roof. I'm not here tonight to tell you about this increasing activity, though it's an exciting story these days, but rather to say a few words about one aspect of it, with which I am more particularly concerned for the moment, namely our relations with other countries, and more particularly with our neighbour, the United States of America. Those relations are, of course, as I have said, good. Indeed, they have been rightly lauded as a model of international cooperation, and I think they are. But we should not assume that without any effort on our part on either side, they will always and automatically remain good. They are, moreover, becoming more important for both countries, and that is bound to create new problems. We see that every day. Tana balloons larger now in the international, and especially in the North American scheme of things. Her position strategically and economically is now of greater significance to Washington than ever before. And similarly, the greater the power of the United States on the world stage, and she bestrives that stage now, the more concerned we become in Canada, and naturally so, over our relations with her, the more preoccupied we become over the purposes and the policies which govern the exercise of this colossal power. And so I think that our mutual relations should be carefully and continuously watched, and we should do everything possible to prevent differences and irritations and uneasiness developing between us. Let's take nothing for granted, even Canadian-American friendship. Any husband here tonight knows what happens, or at least what might happen when he takes his wife for granted. I could pursue this analogy further with interesting speculation and conclusions, but it might not be why that for all this is ladies' lunch. Of course, everything does not run smoothly in this course of true friendship. Old and unsolved problems remain, and some new ones have developed during the last year or so. One of them, if I may mention it in New York, is the St. Lawrence Seaway. We have decided in Canada that if this great venture cannot be carried out cooperatively with the United States, as we think it should be, then we will go ahead and do it ourselves, as an all-Canadian power and navigation seagull. And we can do it, but I assure you, bluffing. Nor do we get it. Of course, we shouldn't take these things. Reading in one of your great national weeklies the following, and I quote from an editorial in that week or so ago, as to Canada's threat, it's not a threat, it's a promise. That's my interpolation, not from the editorial. As to Canada's threat to build a seaway alone, there are commentators who say that any time a country wants to spend its own money with no contribution from the United States, that we must see, if strictly from amazement. Well, the amazement on our side is that any editor could make such a mistake about Canada. He should know, as you know, that we are developing our own country without financial aid from any other government. The American money which has poured in to assist us and has played such a great part in our development, and we all acknowledge that in Canada, is it, I need hardly say, commercial money invested for purposes of honest profit. A respectable purpose even today. And so, we shall go ahead with the St. Lawrence Seaway, if necessary, on our own. But even for a Canadian Seaway, because it affects boundary waters, we have to secure United States cooperation under a treaty between the two governments before we can proceed on our own. And so, we are grateful to the administration in Washington for assuring us that this cooperation will not be withheld. As a matter of fact, when we talk these days about doing something ourselves, going it alone, we are aware that no country, certainly not Canada, can or should want to go it alone. Take our commercial relationships with the United States. No two countries in the world, and this is said so often, it's becoming platitudinous. No two countries in the world are tied together so closely by trade, or your country and mine. You are our best customer and we are yours. This trade is made up of all sorts of goods. We send you raw materials, you send us manufactured goods. We send you apples, you send us oranges. Sometimes the trade figures look queer because we seem to send each other the same thing. For instance, lumber moved in both directions. Probably we only realize how much we depend upon each other in these matters when trade, when things go wrong in trade. And very recently, we've had a tragic example of this. Two or three weeks ago, in a small section, about 50 square miles, of one of our prairie provinces, there was an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in a few herds of cattle. We have never in the history of Canada had an outbreak of this very dangerous and very infectious disease. And we have not yet definitely traced its origin in this case. But American law provides that this country can take no imports of cattle or meat or related products from any country where this disease exists or for some time afterwards it has been declared in Washington not to exist. And so your authorities were forced under that law to impose a complete embargo against all these products from Canada, right across the full length of the international boundary. It shut off Canadian exports from herds in provinces like Ontario, which are more than a thousand miles away from the small center of infection. And that of course has caused confusion in our meat and cattle market all over the country. Well, the Canadian government was then forced in its turn to take rather drastic steps to deal with this situation. And among those steps are controls that we have had to put on imports. And as a result, therefore, of United States restrictions and the consequential Canadian control, a large amount of trade which previously went north and south across the border is now being channeled east and west within Canada. I trust, however, that after the necessary precautionary period described by your law, it will be possible to remove the emergency restrictions in both directions so that our normal free and friendly trade can be resumed. A trade which means so much to both of us. Our two countries cooperate closely, not only in trying to solve these specific problems that arise between us. We can always do that because there's so much goodwill on both sides. But as members, one indeed the great and powerful leader of a coalition of free states determined to prevent war and remove the menacing threat to freedom and peace provided by the specter of Soviet Russian imperialism. Tsarist Russia used to be referred to as the bear that walks like a man. Communist Russia is a conspiracy that walks like an empire. And we live under the shadow of that conspiracy. Our cooperation with you in the defense of peace is especially close in the United Nations and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which has just concluded its most successful and constructive council session at Lisbon. At this session, thanks largely to the effective and intelligent leadership of the United States delegation, we made real progress in consolidating our defensive strength and above all in ensuring that the European defense community, which includes Germany, would be closely and integrally associated with NATO. In this NATO effort, Canada is, I think, carrying its fair share of the burden, both in respect of our contribution to armed forces, the proportion of our national products going into defense, and our contributions to mutual aid. Our part in this great collective enterprise has been supported with a claim and indeed almost a unanimity by all parties in our parliament. And we are behind this effort because we think it represents, at the present time and in present circumstances, our best chance for peace. Because we believe its policies are purely defensive and that its developing strength will never be used for any threatening or aggressive purpose, or one contrary to the principles of the United Nations Charter. We also believe that on the foundation of this defensive alliance, we can build slowly but steadily that deeper and more enduring association which we call the North Atlantic Community, and which it is one of NATO's chief purposes to promote, an association which will survive the emergency which brought us together in the first place. We have many international worries these days. But in Canada, we do not include among them the kind of collective security and collective development arrangements we are building up in NATO under the leadership of the United States. While the menacing danger of an attack on Western Europe still exists, we cannot, I think, take comfort from the growth and the strengthening of the coalition. We are building up until the United Nations gets strong enough, if it ever does, to take over the job, which we are building up under the NATO pact to deal with an attack if it should occur. We have in these matters a basic unity of purpose and a deep measure of agreement on fundamental principles. In the Far East, it isn't quite the same. Here, I think there is, and I'm sure Mr. Dulles and Mr. Russ will agree with me, there is some danger of divergence of policy among the free states. In mentioning the Far East, I should acknowledge at once the tremendous burden which the United States is bearing in Korea in support of the United Nations action there, and the courage and determination being shown by its men. There is, I think, no difference of viewpoint between the governments with forces in Korea as to the desirability of bringing that war to an end as soon as possible, but on honorable terms which do not betray the purpose that we had in intervening in the first place. And that purpose was, as you know, and remains, to defeat aggression and nothing more. So the Canadian government has supported and still supports as a possible step to peace the armistice negotiations now being carried on with such, and this is an understatement, with such patient determination by United States representatives on behalf of the United Nations. We realize also, however, that if these negotiations fail, or if an armistice is concluded successfully and then a further aggression is committed by the Communists, a new and dangerous situation will arise. I said publicly in our own House of Commons on April the 26th last, that if there were massive air attacks from Manchurian bases, retaliatory action might be required against those bases in order to safeguard the United Nations forces in Korea. My then went on to say that the decision to authorize such action would, as we see it, have to balance very carefully local military considerations against the risk of precipitating a further extension of the war, with all its grim and incalculable consequences. We are not convinced in Canada, for instance, that general retaliatory measures such as the blockading of the Chinese coast would be as effective in ending the war in Korea as they would be likely to extend it to China. We feel this way, and I know there can be an honest difference of opinion on this, we feel this way because the best advice we can get leads us to believe that such measures might bring us to the position where, as General Bradley put it some time ago, we would find ourselves fighting the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time and with the wrong enemy. We also think that United Nations policies should be designed to end an aggression in Korea and not to overthrow by force a communist regime in Peking. Like other democratic peoples and governments, the Canadian people and the Canadian government detest communism in Asia or any other place. And we will do what we can and should to eliminate it from our own country and to protect ourselves from its aggressive and subversive designs from abroad. When it showed itself in other countries in the form of military aggression, as it did in Korea, we must do our best to oppose it, as we are in Korea by armed force. As a doctrine, we should expose it as reactionary, and as the instrument of Russian imperialism, which is what it is. But at the same time, we shouldn't forget that in Asia, it has managed to attach to itself strong forces of nationalism and social reform. As Mr. Dulles said in Princeton, in a very impressive speech a few weeks ago, and I hope you won't mind me quoting him, A revolutionary spirit has gripped over half the human race. Passions are abroad which cannot be suppressed by foreign guns. And so I feel, I believe myself, that as a doctrine, communism in Asia will not be destroyed by foreign guns. The guns have to be used when communist violence and banditry occurs. It will be destroyed, I hope, by the Asians themselves when its true character is unmasked. But Western countries can help in this destruction by encouraging and assisting genuinely democratic national governments in Asia, by economic and technical assistance and encouragement to such governments, and by showing through their own experience and their own achievements, that free parliamentary government can do more for the people than reactionary Russian communism can ever hope to do. As for China itself, I suggest that we should let the Peking government know that the government is not going to be able to do. That they must expect communist aggression to be met by collective resistance. That no government in Peking committing such aggression can hope to be accepted into the community of nations. But that, on the other hand, we ourselves did not intervene in Korea or indeed in Formosa in order to overthrow by force the government in Peking. I think also that we should make it clear that while Formosa cannot be allowed to fall into Chinese communist hands while aggressive war is going on in Korea, we do not intend to use our own forces to restore to China the regime which is now in Formosa after being given off the mainland. I think it would be a very great tragedy indeed if the policies, particularly those of the United States and the nations of our Commonwealth, should diverge on these Asian questions. I think it is important to work together in the Pacific and in the Atlantic. And I think that with understanding of each other's problems and with our recognition on our part of the immense burden of responsibility, so much greater than that borne by any other country, which has been undertaken by the United States, by an understanding of that and by complete and frank exchanges of views and information, we can work together in the Pacific as we are working together in the Atlantic. But let us not deceive ourselves. The problems of Asia may subject our coalition of peace-loving free states to difficult tests in the day ahead. And in meeting these tests, Canadian-American cooperation will be important and should be close and strong. We in Canada know this country and its people better, I think, than others do. We know that they will succeed, if I may put it this way, in giving good leadership to a strong and free partnership. We know that the power which they now have will not be used for any aggressive purpose. And that the only glory they seek is that of the peacemaker. It is because of this knowledge and this conviction that I have some right, Mr. Chairman, to look ahead to the day when I can once again appear before this historical Canadian society in New York, with a story to tell about my country, which will have in it no shadow of the cruel anxiety which surrounds us all today. Thank you. Mr. Pearson, we thoroughly enjoyed your talk this evening. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I am very honored to present to you our American guest speaker for this evening, Mr. Dean Rusk. Mr. Dean Rusk. Canada's vigorous and constructive contribution to the international life of our times is a matter of public record. The vitality, strength, and self-reliance of its own national life make it a sturdy champion of democracy at home and a defender of the rule of law beyond its frontiers. It has contributed regularly and generously of its material resources to repair the damage and devastation of war and to assist in stimulating the productive capacity of peoples in other lands. It has borne a full and honorable part in the great struggles in which free men have been compelled to hazard their lives for their deep convictions. But not the least of Canada's contribution has been the number far beyond her quota or ration of exceptional men whom she has sent to represent her abroad and to take a leading role in the highest councils of the world community, where men are trying to bring order and reason out of a situation full of danger and doubt. The quality of men who bear the responsibility for the conduct of foreign policy in a democracy is a matter of the greatest moment. Public attention, under the impact of international or domestic controversy, is inclined to fasten upon accidental details rather than upon the gigantic tasks which we call upon such men to perform. We have an obligation, I think, to reflect occasionally upon what their job is in order that we as citizens may pass more accurate judgments and sense what our own obligations are in the conduct of democracy's foreign policy. There are few fields of human endeavor where wishful thinking and self-delusion are as common or as dangerous as in the foreign policy field. We demand simple answers to the most complex problems confronting the human intelligence. We expect consistency in policy, though the facts themselves are full of contradiction. We should like an easy way to carry a heavy burden, an agreeable way to perform disagreeable tasks, a cheap way to bring about an expensive result. We should like to forget some of the problems which bear directly upon almost every detail of our daily lives, and we try to postpone decisions which will be decided as surely by inaction as by action itself. It is both inevitable and right that citizens in a democracy hold strong views about matters of foreign policy. This active participation by large numbers of citizens is not a matter of theory but of practical political fact. It raises the need and the difficulty of thinking and speaking clearly and simply about some exceedingly complicated matters. There are occasional signs among us of a nostalgia for the days when we had, quote, a clear foreign policy, unquote. When almost everyone felt that he knew what it was. When reactions or lack of reactions to the course of events could be reasonably predicted. We wanted peace, freedom, security, prosperity. We wanted to be good neighbors. We wanted to outlaw war as an instrument of national policy. We wanted to settle disputes by peaceful means. Why have things now become so confused and so complicated? The main reason is that we are now compelled to do something about our principles. We must act upon them or they cannot survive. And action brings us into contact with situations of baffling complexity in all parts of the world. The demands upon human intelligence arising from the imperative need to resolve international conflicts and to find accommodations by which our species might hope to be able to share the occupancy of the same planet are apparently as great as any we have known in the past. I suspect that it was easier to move from E equals MC squared to the atomic bomb than we shall find it to move from the atomic bomb to arrangements which will avoid the violent destruction of the present form of our civilization. The complexity is all the greater because the difficulty is in the field of human behavior where our ignorance is vast rather than in the field of technique where our capacity is considerable. The question is not how to set up an organization, how to overcome language barriers, how to maintain reliable communications, or how to arrange adequate financing for the agreed purpose. The purely technical difficulties of international cooperation have been largely overcome. The problem is how to get men to act in the interest of their own survival and well-being rather than to insist upon their own destruction. The fact that such perverseness appears among the intelligent and well-informed as well as among the ignorant and superstitious warns us that our troubles are of a higher order of difficulty than we are accustomed to think. Another source of confusion is conflict of interest. Not only conflict among the interests of others in which we become involved, but conflict among our own legitimate interests. The United States and Canada find themselves involved in the clash of interest in all parts of the world. Both because of our own far-ranging interests and responsibilities and because of our membership in the United Nations requires us to form judgments about a vast variety of issues which in earlier years would pass us by. No one claims that it is comfortable to be caught between Jew and Arab, Dutch and Indonesian, Indian and Pakistani, or Britain and Persian. The formulation of our own policy and attitude requires us to go through the same conflict in miniature within ourselves as exists in the larger scene outside. Small wonder then that clarity is hard to come by. One can almost say that complete clarity is a sure sign that one's consideration has been fragmentary. The on-rushing pace of events presents special problems of leadership in a democratic society. A thorough public debate in advance of major decisions is not always possible. For in the process the situation may change disastrously against us. The nature of our response to the Berlin blockade had to be decided immediately. Korea could have been totally lost by the end of the first week. That does not mean that democracy is unable to provide the guidance of public opinion to its leaders when swift and crucial decisions have to be made. have to be made. But the process by which it is accomplished is an alert and sustained public interest in and discussion of foreign policy throughout the year, a process out of which comes a continuing redefinition and refinement of national purposes and objectives, a general understanding of the nature of the issues, and a determination of the means which are and are not available for use in support of policy. A serious disadvantage arising from the fierce pace of events is that it is not easy to bring to bear upon particular questions the full intellectual resources of the nation which might be able to contribute to their solution. The harassed public official needs all the help he can get in carrying his burden of responsibility. But the techniques are not yet developed by which he can get the help he needs by the time he needs it. The conduct of the foreign affairs of a great nation requires information, not just general information, but relevant information made available in usable forms to those who carry the heavy responsibilities of leadership. Often there is much information except for the vital piece which makes all the difference. There was an expectation in official quarters, for example, that Japan would launch new operations on the weekend of December 7, 1941. What was not known was that one was being launched against Pearl Harbor. It was known that communist armed forces were so located in the spring of 1950, around the entire periphery of the communist empire, as to be able to move in any direction at almost any time. What was not known was the decision to move into Korea. It is much easier to say those are things we should know than it is to find them out. And volunteers for the job are scarcer than the critics. If there are important gaps in our information, we also fall victim to knowing a good many things which prove not to be so. Confident knowledge about the weightiest matters of world events is a luxury which we are entitled to enjoy, so long as we do not have the responsibility for protecting the security and well-being of the nation, come what may. Foreign policy which rests upon a categorical assessment of fact is in deep trouble if the assessment proves false. I recall on one occasion in Southeast Asia Command during the last war, we had had a three-day conference on which Lord Louis Mountbatten was presiding to try to deal with strategy as between the American and British staffs. We weren't in agreement. And after three days, we still were not in agreement. But on the afternoon of the third day, Lord Louis leaned back in his chair and laughed and said, he had just thought that the director of intelligence in Tokyo was at that very moment using all of the resources of the Japanese empire to find out what our intentions are, and we don't have any intentions. It may be the things we should like to know and desperately need to know are not even there to be known at the time. An important element in the present situation in the Far East, for example, is the exact relationship which now exists between Paping and Moscow. There are varying views about what this relationship is, and different national policies reflect in part these differing views. Whatever the view, the tendency is to hold it strongly, even though one may suspect that neither Stalin nor Mao Zedong is entirely sure of exactly what the relationship is. Prudence suggests, therefore, that we find a policy, if we can, which will best protect our interests regardless of what that relationship turns out to have been. Admittedly, a more difficult and troublesome problem of policy formulation. Oversimplification is an inescapable tendency when large numbers of people think about the same complicated situation. Modesty and fairness require us to remind ourselves that foreign policy problems are somewhat more complicated than appears at first look. If Britain and Western Europe are less eager for a strong line in the Far East than are we, the answer is probably not that they are softer toward communism, but that they prefer to see the strength of the West available to defend their own homes against the same aggression. If certain of our Latin American neighbors two years ago, before Chinese aggression in Korea, were troubled about the problems posed by the appearance of a regime in Paping, the explanation lies probably not so much in sympathy for communism, as in a historic anxiety on the part of Latin American states to protect the international position of de facto regimes. And de facto regimes are something our friends to the South know a good deal about. And so we can attempt to extend understanding to others on issues such as that, and at the same time seek from them accompanying understanding where we feel it necessary to plant a flag at a more advanced outpost than some of our friends would like in the interest of protecting ourselves against the shoot to war. In the matter of getting and using information, it seems to me that our democracies are committed to diligence in seeking the facts, honesty in appraising and facing them, and willingness to look at new facts as they develop. Ignorance, of course, can produce weakness and mistakes, but a conscious persistence in error in the face of ascertainable fact has left its wreckages strung through history, witnessed Hitler. If there are problems about getting information, there are some about giving it. A heavy responsibility rests upon democratic leadership to keep the country fully informed about what is going on, what the issues and dangers are, and what steps are available to further the national objectives. Much information is available, but much of it is used only by a limited few. How to inform those who have little time, interest, or initiative of their own to contribute to the process is a continuing problem of democratic government. At times the issue is reversed. If the public has a right to know, does it not also have a right not to know when public knowledge would seriously endanger a vital interest? To ferret out a piece of secret information and give it to a hostile government abroad is a spionage and is punished as such. Is the damage to the national interest any less just because the same secret is made known to the rest of the world at the same time? There are dangers of abuse on both sides. The abuse of secrecy to hide what should come to the light of day, and the abuse of disclosure with resulting aid and comfort to one's enemies. Conscientious restraint on the part of officials in placing information under a secret label, and conscientious restraint on the part of the rest of us in not demanding information we are better off without would help. But we are in the field of human judgment, and mistakes will continue to be made in both directions. Now let us not as citizens underestimate the difficulty of the democratic process itself, by which our nation arrives at its major conclusions of foreign policy. Every department and agency of our vast government becomes involved in one way or another. Within the executive branch of the government, the State Department leads, but it cannot drive other agencies to conclusions. In the superficial sense, this may result from the tendency of bureaucracy, both public and private, to be sensitive about prerogatives and jealous of function. But in a truer sense, the State Department's role is leader rather than commander, because the department acts for the president, and the same president has entrusted other heavy responsibilities, which are a part of his constitutional burden, to other departments and agencies. It is only through a proper mutual respect for each other's functions, that the various elements of the executive branch can do their best job in serving and advising the president, with respect to his entire job seen as a whole. And the role of the Congress in the field of foreign policy has entered a new order of magnitude, both as to quantity and importance of work in these past few years. If Congress now meets regularly until October and November rather than July, the reason is foreign relations. A comparison of the Congressional Foreign Affairs agenda in this session with that of 25 or 50 years ago, would produce a startling contrast. Nor are the particular items trivial. The admission of Greece and Turkey to NATO, foreign military and economic assistance, the ratification of the four Great Pacific Treaties, rearmament, universal military training, the St. Lawrence Waterway, the NATO status of forces agreement. These are only a part of the menu for this session. I have no doubt there are at least 50 to 60 other items, because there always are. But busy and overburdened members of the Congress must pass judgment upon a procession of important questions, most beyond their direct knowledge and experience, and in a space of time which does not permit the careful and mature examination which they themselves would like to give to their task. Procedures are somewhat antiquated, and coordination between Senate and House, and between the legislative and executive branches, suffers from inadequate party organization and discipline on both sides of the aisle. But foreign policy is not just a matter for the executive and legislative branches of the federal government. The states themselves often have a pressing interest in a particular problem, and the hundreds of great private organizations representing all aspects of American life, take a vigorous interest in foreign policy decisions. When one considers, therefore, what is required to bring this great nation of ours into a common frame of mind about an important matter, and to fasten upon a course of action which can be followed with confidence and determination, the role of leadership in the conduct of foreign relations begins to unfold. I have said on other occasions that 80% of the conduct of our foreign relations is the management of our own affairs, and only 20% dealing with the foreign. That can be proved statistically or by identifying the sources of the bruises received by those engaged in the process. Assuming, however, that our sprawling, tumultuous democracy has made up its mind on a particular matter, we are not yet through with the democratic process. For only then are we prepared to embark upon the process of international democracy, which can be as difficult and complicated as at home. Canada and the United States are members of a complex of international organizations, which consider multilaterally almost every aspect of our foreign relations. Canada and the United States are members of the United Nations. The United States now has security arrangements with almost 40 other nations. On an ordinary working day, 20 to 30 meetings of the United Nations and other organizations may be going on somewhere in the world. Conclusions are reached by various types of majorities. Time does not permit us this evening an examination of some of the interesting implications of the practice of parliamentary diplomacy in this postwar period. But there is no question but that it has enormously increased the demands upon those responsible for our foreign policy. One aspect of it is too often ignored or minimized by our citizenry in this country. The growth of American power and wealth has produced a corresponding restriction upon our freedom of action. Our great strength has brought heavy responsibilities rather than freedom from care. Many factors are involved. Many factors are involved. Our own purposes and, if you like, consciences. A realistic assessment of our true interests. A recognition that our very strength is inevitably interlaced with the strength and well-being of others. And what our forefathers called a decent respect to the opinions of mankind. Nor should we regret the passing of considerable portions of our freedom of action. The same thing is happening to other nations, except for the rogues who refuse to join the rest. And the broad movement is toward the rule of law. I've spent some time on the complications and difficulties in order to remind us that the men who are carrying the responsibility for our democracy's foreign affairs are engaged in a task which extends human intelligence to its limits. Which calls upon every physical and spiritual reserve which they could muster. And which requires that judgment, prudence, and patience be combined with speed, daring, and a dreadful sense of urgency. They are dealing with issues of the gravest import to our future under the merciless spotlight of world attention. With tools which are imperfect. Information which is partial. Judgments which are human. And a course of events which unfolds day by day with no clear preview in some certified crystal ball. Men like, if I may mention some Americans, men like Henry Stimson, Dean Acheson, George Marshall, John Foster Dulles, and Arthur Vandenberg. These are not, fortunately for our democracy, unique. But they are extremely rare. If we as citizens would have our country prosper, we must consider what we ourselves can do to create conditions in which such men can serve their country with all of the great capacity which they can bring to the job. The matter goes beyond party considerations. The matter goes beyond party considerations. For it involves the health and sanity of the entire body politic. If I now conclude with a dash of optimism, perhaps the optimism will be more solidly founded for having survived so many anxieties. In fact, the democratic process works pretty well. Both at home and in our dealings abroad. If we stand back and take a calm look, we shall discover a broad basis of national understanding and agreement on the main lines of our foreign policy. And what is even more important, we shall find a remarkable unity of basic purpose and policy among the great majority of the governments and peoples of the earth. Here at home there are a few who would pull our interests and efforts back to our own shores. And a few others who would apparently embark upon new and undefined adventures abroad. But the main lines of policy are generally agreed without reference to party lines. A careful examination will disclose that there is more bipartisanship perhaps than the participants sometimes seem willing to confess. As citizens, we are entitled to be irritated but not dismayed by the turbulence of our politics. For controversy is implicit in our constitutional arrangements and has been with us since our republic was born. If there are doubts about our ability to rise above the pleasures of controversy when serious matters require it, we have had a recent example to reassure us. Within the year, at a moment of controversy unmatched in our recent history, the leadership of both political parties placed public interest above partisan difference. And enable the Secretary of State and Mr. John Foster Dulles to pursue to completion the four great Pacific treaties which have moved us significantly closer to peace in that area. I invite you who are Americans to take a measure of pride in that achievement. And you who are Canadians to take assurance that there is an element of sobriety underneath the clamor which possesses you on your southern border. If there is underlying unity at home, there is an encouraging degree of unity abroad. We do not need to try to speak for others on this point. If we listen quietly, they will speak for themselves. Day after day, in one international meeting after another, the hopes and aspirations of mankind are made articulate. I do not believe it a sentiment, but a result of observation and attention over the past seven years to say that the preamble and articles one and two of the Charter of the United Nations accurately reflect the policies of the great body of mankind. If it is true, as I believe it is, that those same sections of the Charter represent a fair summary of the foreign policies of Canada and the United States, the community of interest between us and most of the other nations of the earth is a matter of the utmost importance. United by lofty purpose, the great majority is now moving to organize for peace and to combine their efforts not merely in the negative sense of preventing aggression, but in a more permanent and positive sense to achieve the life to which their peoples aspire. I have now, Mr. Chairman, come full circle and end where I started in an appreciation to Canada for the men you have furnished to the leadership of our world community. It is not a matter of just paying a compliment to a neighbor. Our purposes are common and we are ourselves a direct beneficiary of your contribution. The quality of our own association is enhanced because we have made it a part of an even larger community of nations, a community which is intent upon constructing a just and durable peace. Our present danger derives from the fact that we are very close to a solid peace, to the dismay of some whose tyranny cannot survive if peace and liberty are firmly planted. But I am confident that we shall pass through our dangers and that we can draw upon the elementary sources of our democracy to find the patience, the toil, the courage, and the vision which we shall need for the job. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.