The End The End The End The End The End The End Here beside us is Pan American World Airways' new Boeing Stratacruiser. It's been christened Clipper United States, sister ship to the America. And it's this ship and the facilities of Pan American World Airways that makes this round-the-world trip possible. Now beside me here is Mr. Samuel F. Pryor, Jr., Vice President and Assistant to the President of Pan American World Airways. Ms. Pryor. Thank you, Mr. Frazier. Mr. and Mrs. Denny, members of the town hall group, and friends. Not long ago in Washington, Vice President Barclay defined in one crisp phrase the role of civil aviation in nation's air power. Speaking at the christening ceremonies for the new Clipper America, sister of this Clipper United States, he called this mighty new instrument of American enterprise another wing for peace. Today, as we are launching a world tour of America's town meeting of the air, that definition takes on added significance. Throughout the years, our Pan American Clippers have carried many vital cargoes. Men, material, mail, merchandise, medicines, even munitions in time of war. But the cargo of this town hall flight is the most priceless one a Clipper could carry. A cargo of ideas and ideals. Air transport certainly has come of age when it can enable a group of Americans to meet for a discussion of mutual problems with their counterparts in 12 world capitals in course of a single summer. The airplane has reduced the airplane. The airplane has reduced the barriers of time and space which separate us from our foreign neighbors. Ventures such as these round the world town hall meetings bringing representative citizens face to face can reduce the barriers to human understanding that so long have kept the world's people apart. Pan American World Airways is proud of its opportunity to participate in this truly pioneering venture of Mr. Denny and the town hall group. We wish you Godspeed on your journey. We congratulate you and the distinguished American organizations you represent for a public service of vital importance to our nation and to us all. Thank you, Mr. Pryor. Thank you, Mr. Pryor. For 14 years now, Town Meeting of the Air has been broadcast to the people of the United States. It's become truly an American institution. And around these broadcasts, town hall meetings and discussion groups have been alerted in almost every city and hamlet of the United States. Radio has played and continues to play a vital role in the cultural life of the United States. And the American Broadcasting Company is indeed proud of its association with town hall. Here beside me, representing the American Broadcasting Company, is Mr. Ivor Kenway, Vice President of American Broadcasting Company. Mr. Kenway. Thank you, Gordon. It is a privilege to represent the American Broadcasting Company at these ceremonies which mark the takeoff for London of America's town meeting of the air on the first leg of its history-making round the world tour. While the diplomats of the world fence about, this great plane is taking off today to make it possible for the members of this party, who represent literally millions of our people, to send back to us folks at home the results of their conversations and discussions which will be carried on abroad in an atmosphere that is not messed up with protocol, official instruction, and the necessity of jockeying for position. I believe that radio in this country is very conscious of its responsibility to the American public. And I say that not only for the American Broadcasting Company, but most sincerely for the other three networks as well. For 14 years, as Gordon said, we've been proud to broadcast America's town meeting of the air. And I think it would be difficult to imagine how at this time we could render a greater public service to the people of America than will be offered them by this expansion of America's town meeting from purely national to really word-wild proportions. Mr. Denny, as founder and moderator of America's town meeting of the air, you deserve the highest praise for having had the vision to conceive and organize a project through which the people of this nation and of other lands will better understand their common problems by a frank discussion of them. Whether we like it or not, America has taken on the responsibilities of world leadership. And in discharging these responsibilities, this undertaking is bound to contribute greatly toward the goal of world peace and stability. As a radio man, I am proud of America's part in this project. And as an executive of the American Broadcasting Company, I am doubly proud that our system will be the instrument for its fulfillment. To you who are members of the World Town Hall Seminar, making this tour with Mr. Denny and his staff, I can only say that your farsightedness and that of your organization in taking part in such an endeavor is to be highly commended. Good luck and happy landings. Thank you, Mr. Kenway. Now the spark plug of this whole organization. George V. Denny Jr., the moderator of America's town meeting of the air and president of Town Hall Incorporated. A man whose name and voice is known in every home in America where there's a radio. And a man whose name is familiar as familiar to the working man and the man of labor as it is to those in the diplomatic circles. A man whose sense of justice and fair play is something that all of us here are mighty proud of. Mr. Denny. Thank you, Gordon Fraser. Thank you, Gordon Fraser. And good evening, friends. Good afternoon, I should say. I'm very, very happy. I'm sure you all know that. At the same time, I'm deeply humble and very grateful to so many people who have helped to make this trip possible. I'm grateful to Pan American Airways, to Sam Pryor and his associates, who have worked valiantly to smooth the way for our party and for this party that's going along with us as the town hall seminar. I'm grateful to the American Broadcasting Company and the entire system who have made possible the trip through the radio facilities that have reached out across this land of 265 stations. Made it possible for 17,685 people to contribute funds to help send the town meeting around the world. I'm grateful to the State Department for the magnificent cooperation they gave us. And I'm grateful to the people here at the Idlewild Airport for their cooperation this evening, this afternoon. I don't want to take all the time that has been allotted me. I'd like to share it with some of the members of the seminar and introduce you to just a few of them who are here on this stage, on this platform, with us, beside this beautiful Pan American Clipper United States. Mrs. Buck, the President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs. Mrs. Buck, you've just come back from a trip out the Far East. Will you tell us what you hope to accomplish on this journey? Thank you, Mr. Denny. I'd be very glad to tell you that I hope to meet some old friends in this trip around the world and to make many new ones. Because I believe that if the women of the world know each other and understand each other and understand each other's problems, there's going to be a chance that we can all work together for the thing we most want, world peace. Thank you, Mrs. Buck. Now, here's Mayor Welch of Grand Rapids representing the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Mr. Mayor, you are quite an international figure. Will you tell us what you hope to accomplish on this trip? Well, first of all, Mr. Denny, I'd like to ask who wouldn't have been proud to have thought of this idea? And I want to compliment you and everybody who has had any part in it. This trip, to me, is historic in this respect. We have learned how to split the atom. And our next big job is how to unite people. And that's what this is aimed at. Thank you, Mayor Welch. And now I take great pleasure in presenting the representative of the National Council of Negro Women. I thought I was right. That's what I started to say. Mrs. Sampson, and we're so glad to have you with us. Mrs. Sampson, this is your first trip around the world. What do you hope to accomplish? Oh, Mr. Denny, I hope to see and participate in the life of the people in the 15 countries we touch so that when I come back to America, I can tell the organization that I represent in particular and fellow Americans in general how fine a life we have here in America. Thank you very much, Mrs. Sampson. And now back here I see Bob Hanson, who represents the Fraternal Order of Eagles. He's the editor of their publication. He represents over a million and a quarter organized members throughout the United States. Bob, how about this trip of ours? Well, we're happy to go, Mr. Denny, and by our participation, seek to promote understanding people to people, seek to develop American awareness of the problems of the world in which we live, and to show our appreciation, Mr. Denny, for all that you and the town hall folk have done to keep alive, first in America and now around the world, the spirit of the old New England town meeting, the lifeblood of a democratic system here or anywhere else. Thank you, Bob Hanson. And now here's my old friend Clarence Decker, the president of Kansas City University, who's going along with his wife, lovely Mary Decker. Decker, how about this trip? I think this is one of the grandest ideas that has occurred to any American, and I'm awfully happy that it occurred to one of the great Americans, George Denny. Of course, it takes George to go in the greatest circle to do the straightest possible thinking. But if nothing more comes out of this trip than the fact that a few town halls are established throughout the world, which will lead the way to a town hall in every little village, in every country throughout the world, we then will have a firm and sound basis for real cooperation and understanding on a democratic basis among people. Here you are, George. Thank you very much. And now I want just a word, please, from Brooks Emonie, the president of the Foreign Policy Association, and we're especially proud to have with us. Thank you, Mr. Denny. You and I are more or less in the same line of business in that we're concerned with the public concern over world relations. And this is certainly a very interesting adventure in which we have representatives of America going throughout at least the borderland of the Soviet Union and around the world to try to bring further understanding of the problems of these areas. Thank you, Brooks Emonie. And now Gordon Fraser, thank you. George B. Denny, Jr., in your old party, good luck, happy landings, and we'll be listening for you on Tuesday night. Town meeting now boarding Pan-America's Boeing Strato Cruiser at Idlewild Airfield. Town meeting going round the world. This is ABC, the American Broadcasting Company. Town meeting and running in spirituality, Iдаwild Airfield. Town meeting, Town meeting on Tuesday night but a lot of different things are going on Tuesday night, how will I go to Frair Street and my house might advance within the world. Now I'm going to play on Tuesday night. The ocean won't be on Tuesday night, I'm already f SAP così far,
