I am honored to represent the Commanding General of the First Army, Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger. On account of numerous engagements, today particularly with the UN, he asked me to express his deep regrets at not being able to be present. He looks upon the USO and the National Catholic Community Service as a second home to our soldiers. He feels that the work we are doing in the camps and stations nearby must be supplemented by the community at large. And he asks God's special blessing upon this newly inaugurated USO of the National Catholic Community Service and gives it 100%. He asked me to express to the Cardinal that any time you need him, he will be there with bells on. We thank you. Thank you, Colonel Martin. And now that the mayor is here, I'm going to ask him to say a few words to all of you. Mayor Joseph Sharkey. Acting Mayor Joseph Sharkey. Your Eminence Cardinal Spellman, Mr. Kimball, Admiral Badger, representatives of the Army, distinguished guests. It is with great pride and happiness that I join you today. Thank you. The march. with the evil forces of the communist enemy. Even with the combined efforts of other large groups in our community engaged in a similar effort, some people still view the desperate world situation with complacency or apathy. The crying need for a great many more U.S. club facilities similar to this one in every borough of the greater New York City area must be made apparent to everyone. The support of everyone man, woman, or child for the newly reactivated U.S.O. is of greatest agency. This particular club is being officially dedicated and open today but already it has demonstrated its necessity because it has already served the needs of more than 2,500 boys and girls in uniform in recent days before it was completed. The experience gained by the volunteer workers who operated the old wartime canteen at 17 East 51st Street and the newcomers has already proved its enormous value in providing a home away from home for our new crop of war emergency young folks in military uniform. It is my hope that everyone will accept it as a first priority moral obligation to support this club and others which will be needed in all the other boroughs of greater New York City. The need for relaxation, encouragement, and unofficial human friendly comfort for our boys when they have a few hours off duty needs no explanation nor should please for generous cooperation and support be necessary. Certainly the City Administration will, as always, do more than its part to assist in all possible ways to aid every effort to add to the comfort and happiness of our boys and girls in military service. On behalf of the City of New York as Acting Mayor, I extend the thanks and gratitude of all of our citizens to His Eminence, Cardinal Spellman, and to all of the other generous and warm-hearted, patriotic members of our community who have made this clubhouse and its facilities possible. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Acting Mayor. We've heard from the Army and the City, and now I'd like to call on Mr. Lindsey Kimball, the President of the USO, the National President, and I know we can tell you more about the United Defense Fund that's coming than any of us. Dr. Kimball. Honorable first patron of USO, and USOers one and all. In World War II, the USO served about two billion men, and according to figures that I found, that is more than the total number of cats in North America, and it's about equal to the total consumption of lead pencils in the United States. We were called back into service by the President of the United States and the Secretary of Defense to serve in a time of continuing national emergency. Now, I think as civilians that we have only begun to learn that since the periphery of our national defense is worldwide, so must our interest be worldwide, and so must our home front be worldwide. and so the significance of a home away from home is precisely that, that our boys, wherever they may be on the face of this globe, not only have our interest and our backing, but our real concern. Every single study that I have seen of the morale of the armed forces has had in it somewhere this sentence, that the overriding factor in determining the morale of the armed forces is the attitude of the folks back home. Now, if we had no indifference, if we had full knowledge and understanding, we would need no USO. We do have no indifference here or you wouldn't be here. The only item that I know essential to military purposes, which you cannot issue as GI equipment, is morale. And so behind all the services listed in this little book and all the others that are given here and rendered here and cannot be listed, even more important, is the service which you render with a spiritual motive to the men and women, our boys, in our army that we have created. Now, I suppose that in the nature of things we never can have a democratic army. But please God, we can and we will have an army of democracy. And so, we have learned through these years somehow and I don't know how. It concerns me. We have come to believe that we can appropriate funds and then buy a miracle. We can no more win a piece or earn a piece nor fight a cold war without the concern of every single citizen than we can do that in a hot war. And so we are gathered here to celebrate the opening of this building. It stands as a symbol of all that NCCS stands for. It is one of our original agencies. It is one of our senior agencies. It has been an inspiration to all the other agencies. And in dedicating or helping to dedicate this building, I am very glad to see that here boys of all faiths and of all needs, so long as they are in our armed forces, they will find a welcome and in this city they will find a home away from home. And in passing and in conclusion, I'll give you just these figures. They're rather interesting. In 1942, the first year of the total war, we served on an average one million and a half soldiers per month. Last month and every month recently, we have served three million. That's just double what we did in the first beginning of the world war. In the year 1942, it cost us thirty-three million dollars to render that service. Our whole budget for 1952 is thirteen million. Then we had three million, nine hundred thousand men. Next year, we will have very close to four million. So with a third of the money, with a waning popular interest, it's more than helpful to have this club. But let's not forget that our home front extends to Korea, where we've sent already ten camp shows units, where stars have appeared, and to Alaska and to all the ends of the earth, where our boys go. But all boys from all over the country will find here a welcome which is symbolic of what lies within our hearts. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Kimball. And now, for the Navy, Vice Admiral Oscar C. Badger, Commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier, Admiral Badger. Mr. Kramins, Mr. Stocke, Mr. Kimball, Mr. Barty Kelly, distinguished guests, it's a privilege and honor, of course, as well as a pleasure to be here with you and others, particularly with Cardinal Spellman today, while busy people of the New York area paused for a brief period to dedicate this splendid structure which is destined to contribute to the wants of the men and women of the armed forces while on leave or liberty. I've known New York for a great many years. I've known it to be generous to men of the armed forces. I've known it to be generous as a city in general. As a matter of fact, the other day in talking to Father Kelly, I told him of a story of an experience that happened to me a good many years ago when I was a young man. They didn't have USOs in those days and they didn't have such organizations that we could turn to, either officers, young officers, or enlisted men. But nevertheless, recognizing the generosity of the city of New York, I made a wager in the mess of my ship which was then at the Brooklyn Navy Yard that my roommate and I could take two dollars, two one dollar bills and go to New York, buy a drink, have a roast for dinner, go to the theater, sit in the orchestra, go to a nightclub and have champagne and return to the ship in good order and believe it or not, we won the battle. The present need to increase our armed forces removes from their homes thousands of young men and distributes them to all parts of the world. Most of these young men have enjoyed spiritual, moral, and educational guidance and backing to a degree that is only found in the American home and American community. Separated from these devoted friends and relatives, we must see that this same interest in their welfare and the same support in all matters concerning their futures as American citizens does not diminish. Therefore, Cardinal Spellman, the opening of this center of welfare for the men of our armed forces by the National Catholic Community Service, the Archdiocese of New York, supported as it is by the generous contribution and personal effort of the citizens of New York, constitutes an activity truly American in its concept and character and contributory to the overall welfare and security of our nation. Speaking for the Navy at this dedication ceremony, I desire to express our sincere appreciation to you, your eminence, and to all of the many others who are giving so generously of their time and of their worldly possessions, provide a snug harbor for our Blue Jackets ashore in this great and generous city of New York. Thank you. Thank you, Admiral Badger. Now, the next speaker is Bishop Griffiths, who was really one of the men who charged as the Army and Navy chaplain in New York. Bishop Griffiths. Thank you, Mr. Kelly. Up to the present moment, we have maintained undeviatingly an attitude of blessed brevity, and I think that I shall confine myself to an observance of that. As a matter of fact, I want to say this afternoon that my purpose is to thank everybody and anybody who has made this afternoon possible. I could list many who are unseen and who probably will remain unknown, but I want to first of all thank his eminence, Cardinal Spellman, for appointing me to the board, administrative board. I want to thank him for his generosity in stepping forward to advance the money which alone made possible the building in which we are. His eminence saw the way things were developing. He knew instinctively that we have an obligation to our young people of the armed forces, and therefore he did not hesitate to make the funds available and advance them to us so that this work could be a realizable six months or eight months before it might have been. Secondly, I want to thank the members of the board who served with me for their cooperation, their generosity. I want to single out Mr. John C. Kelly, who is our master of ceremonies today because he has rendered faithful and sacrificing service. But I should certainly be most remiss if I did not single out for a tribute today Father John P. Kelly, who has worked day in and day out and night in and night out in effecting the miracle which is this NCCS USO club. You have no concept of the change which was made. I regret merely that we did not take photos of the premises when we took over. He has given of his time and his talents, he has shown a readiness to resume the work which he did during hostilities during the hot war. And I thank him in the name of the board and I feel that I can thank him particularly in the name of the servicemen and servicewomen who come here. To all those, to the hostesses, to the volunteers of all types, sincerest thanks and a blessing. And I promise that I shall do what I can to continue to give my little part that USO and NCCS may continue its excellent tradition. Thank you. And now, as eminent, our Cardinal. Jack Kelly and Father Kelly, Mayor Schacke, Admiral Badger, Admiral Olsen, Admiral Salisbury, General Craig, and Father Martin representing General Crittenberger, whom I thank also for the First Army Band, Miss Monroe, Dr. Kimball, Bishop Arnold, Bishop Griffiths, ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends, members. Thank you. Everybody has been thanked for this clubhouse, and everybody deserves thanks because it has been a community, a cooperative venture, and we are very happy this afternoon to be here to welcome you friends of the USO, friends of our boys and girls in the armed forces. prayerfully and proudly, yet with deep humility, I have this day blessed this new United Service Organizations clubhouse, which will be conducted under the auspices of the National Catholic Community Service. Consecrated to God and country, it is our heart's hope that this clubhouse will be a haven and home to those thousands of America's sons and daughters, who far from their own loved and loving families and friends feel need of, and here will find, the comfort, relaxation, and recreation of a true home. Given to us by the Young Women's Catholic Club, we have expanded, remodeled, and redecorated this building at a cost of $50,000, and the best and finest equipment and furnishings have been generously contributed by several organizations and individuals, all in the spirit of true Americanism, for we must give the best to the best, those of America's youth who are selflessly giving themselves for their country. 250 hostesses have volunteered their services, and already, as Mayor Shafia stated, 2,500 servicemen have come to this new center, where I know they will receive hospitality and make new friendships. Yet do I fervently pray God, soon they will be free to return to their own homes, there in real peace to follow the normal, happy course of their life's work. For no matter how splendidly equipped is this building, no matter how unselfish has been our aim to make it home for those far away from their own mothers and fathers, wives, husbands, and children, our motives can never match those of our brave-hearted sons who are called upon to sacrifice their day dreams, their fondest hopes, their dearest works, and even at time their lives to keep our home safe from destruction and desecration by satanic, Stalin-controlled communists. Here, America's youth of every color, creed, and race, as Dr. Kimball has stated, will find welcome. Their club card of admission, the honored uniform of the armed forces of our country. They, our sons and daughters, have come from our thousand towns, from city blocks, from factories and fields of our fair land. Many are they, but truly one, the sons of many streams that poured their wealth into a common cup, the wide and golden cup of liberty. Kinsmen of some of them, their fathers and brothers, I have met upon blood-soaked lands in different and far corners of the earth, where I went to visit and pray with the men of our armed forces during the shooting war of so few years ago, a war that truly never ended. With some I share today, with others a religious service behind lines of battle, and with all I shared, as I now shared with these our sons, a common love of our wondrous noble nation, and from my heart I offer them hospitality and health, and the friendship of my priests and people, in whatever measure we can serve them. Nor am I ashamed to say that there are tears in my very soulless day, as it cries out to Almighty God, begging grace for man's return to him in faith, that all nations of the earth may, in world resurrection, learn to live together in justice, in freedom, and in peace. Almighty God, Father of our nation, we bow humbly before thee in worship. We come with thanksgiving that through the years thou hast blessed us as a nation, guiding, keeping, strengthening, sustaining. We thank thee for the life spirit with which thou hast breathed into our bodies, and for our immortal souls, which have raised us above all creation, and destined us for eternal rendezvous with thee. We thank thee for the basic human rights with which thou and none other has inalienably endowed us, and of which none may deprive us. We thank thee because we may set up our altars in the throbbing hearts of cities, towns, and hamlets. Our in the shaded silences of woodland glens, and raised to thee hymns of praise without fear of knelt and lash, without dread of dungeon and dagger. We thank thee for the right and for the duty freely to speak out the truth without peril of repression, reprisal, or rebuke. In this day of world desolation, when ancient peoples are naked and hungry, when stalwart lands have been blackened and blasted, despoiled and enslaved, we, children of the western star, acknowledge the bounty, the incredible natural resources with which thou, O God, hast enriched our America. We gratefully recognize the abundance with which thou hast made our harvest to gild the rolling prairies, and we thankfully avow the productive harmony with which thou hast caused the wheels of our industry to spin. O God of wisdom, justice, and might, in thy mercy continue to bless our country and strengthen and inspire our leaders in this hour of worldwide sorrow with a profound understanding and an undeviating appreciation of the everlasting values and unchanging principles of true freedom. Teach us that only by exemplifying in our everyday lives, the love and service of thee, creator and liberator of mankind, and the love of our fellow man, be white or black, yellow or brown, teach us, we pray, that only by the exercise of these fundamental virtues may we hope to achieve that peace for which the broken-hearted human race now yearns, that peace which is the tranquility of order, that peace which is the product of justice, that peace which can come only to men and through men of good will. Lord God of hosts, bless and protect the legions of armed forces in their crusade to defend and vindicate the ideals of human freedom. Bless them and the thousands of victims who have been called to lay down their lives on the rugged mountain sides and the rice patties of Korea. That country, tragically called the land of mourning calm, grant that we may not prove unmindful or unworthy of their blood, which is the price of our freedom, that freedom which is the fruit of vigilance, toil, and sacrifice. Be with us, blessed Lord, lest we forget. applause Now all of you are invited to visit through the building and see the facilities on all five floors, and refreshments will be served on the lower floor and in the back of this floor. From now on, thank you for all of you coming. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.