A veteran, a splendid Red Cross representative, member of the New York Chapter Board, stepped in and is now a very able chairman in the Bronx. It's a pleasure to introduce Mr. Roderick Stevens. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Red Cross, Dr. Roderick, and every other star-holt, and Bonnie, the ladies and gentlemen, all together. The fellow and I report our report. Mr. Ray Calcutta, our chairman of Women's Division, the chairman of the Community Appeals, the chairman of the Commerce Foundation Division. Our total debate is not what we have hoped it would be, and yet it is a fairly men's rule amount towards the goal we intended to be. One hundred and fifty-eight thousand three hundred and four dollars. Congratulations, Mr. Stevens. Now in Brooklyn, following in the very able footsteps of Red Barber, we are very fortunate in having, as borough campaign chairman, one of Brooklyn's most eminent citizens, and its surrogate. We got out of the sickbed today to be with us on this occasion, and to report the Brooklyn quota, Judge Francis McGarry. Thank you, Mr. Conwell, the Remanant, for a panel, and the French Red Cross. Today, Brooklyn has $601,050 actual cash in the bank. There are a substantial number of other contributions which we have been told about, but have not received, but will receive. The amount, the amount, the amount which I have reported is actually in the bank. That represents the work of the Commerce and Industry Division, headed by Harry Wilkins. The Employees Gifts Division, headed by Jim Galloo, Jim Quinn, and Louie Hollander. The Community Appeal Division, headed by Colonel Jack Bennett of Corporation Council. And the Special Gifts Committee, headed by Max Morgan. Brooklyn will go over the top. Thank you, Judge McGarry. Now, in Central Queens, we have again been fortunate in our leadership, for there is a veteran team in Queens. And fortunate is the chairman of the citywide campaign who can work with this team, because they always make a success of it. Pleasure to introduce Mrs. M.B. Schultz and Mr. Ambrose Hacker, who will report to Central Queens. The President of Queens, and for our 1946 Funds organization, and the annual leadership of our co-chairman, Mr. Michael H. Schultz, and our vice chairman, and chairman of the commerce industry, John Jay Conway, and our former deputy, John Jay Conway, and our forward, by the way, is $610,000. He gave me to thank him. He has got this morning $239,023.82. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambrose Hacker. It's another chapter in Queens, and that is Queens North Shore. This is a chapter with a complicated task, because it's largely a residential area, and the furthest one from the heart of New York City. Here again, we have a grand leader, and it is a pleasure to report on the man who has led every one of the campaigns in Queens North Shore, Mr. Ray M. Schmitz. We do have about close to 12,000 communities, in fact, in all my communities in New York City. Every day, we accomplish $45,000 in our co-chair. We have a grand leader, and we have a grand leader, and we have a grand leader, and we have a grand leader, and we have a grand leader. Thank you very much. Congratulations to you, Mr. Schmitz. Now, over in Staten Island, we have again been fortunate in having a team. Year after year, the Staten Island campaign has been successful, and been conducted with a minimum of trouble for the citywide chairman. We have this year, functioning in Staten Island, Mrs. Terence Hayhill, and Mr. Ernest Miller. Mr. Miller will report to Staten Island. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Miller. The heaviest load of fundraising in the greater New York area falls upon Manhattan, because there is located the head offices of most of the corporations in this area. The leadership of the campaign here is practically a full-time job for a year. And this year, we are particularly fortunate in the man who once took that responsibility, for he's had long experience in the drives. He placed this section chairman last year as commerce and industry chairman, and now general chairman in Manhattan. I was having worked closely with him during all these campaigns, I want to take this opportunity of telling him how deeply grateful I am myself to all that he has done on Red Cross campaigns during the war. Great pleasure to introduce to you Manhattan chairman, Mr. William P. Gibbon Jr. The Manhattan collection today is $5.5 million, 73% of our quota. I don't like to add, the situation isn't quite as good as that sounds. The last 27% is lots of money when we bear in mind most of the big gifts have been received. I think we'll raise the full total, but certainly we will not raise it without a spirit that carries through the clean-up of every possible dollar that we can bring in. This job is a happy one because of the chairman of the different sections of the Manhattan Drive. The apartment house division has 2,600 apartment house chairmen. The money has begun to come in. This is the time that really begins to flow. I take great pleasure in presenting Mrs. Grover O'Neil, its chairman. Employee gifts have secured chairman in 22,000 different companies and firms. I have a rather unusual pleasure here in presenting Mrs. William P. Gibbon Jr., chairman, and Mr. John Faulk, an own co-chairman. The field worker division, as you all know, is the coin box. There are 12,000 coin boxes at work. The big part of this drive, the big money-raising part, is the motion picture house collection. That starts on the 20th. The indications are the coin boxes will go well over the top this year. There are lots of difficult jobs in the Manhattan area. One of the hardest is non-industrial. It covers professional people, clubs, fraternal organizations, foreign committees, federal state municipal employees, and many others, including churches. They have 1,250 active committees. The chairman of this group has been the boss of every one of us in Red Cross off and on for many years. He has worked harder. He sacrificed more for Red Cross than, as far as I know, anybody in Manhattan. It's a great privilege to present this chairman, the executive vice chairman of our campaign, Mr. J.P. Stevenson. Red Cross has been fortunate in keeping in game the chairman of Special Gifts. He's also collected from Foundations. Special Gifts has a big quota. They have already collected more than half that quota, and we certainly have high hopes and high assurances for their success. Its chairman is Mr. Lewis W. Morell. The Sports Committee started to function only two or three years ago. It has been one of our biggest sources of money rights. The inspiration of that whole development was burned on the front. They have already collected about 93% of their quota. We expect of them another 100% of their quota. The men who have carried this load. I present the men who have carried this load. Mr. Prantice, Julian Meyry, Mr. Alison Dancy, and Mr. Albert Dittman. All of us who have worked around the 120 West, 130 West 42nd Street have really been under control of one person. The representative of the chapter. The high voice, not in title possibly, but in effect. And I present Mrs. Lewis W. Duckworth. It's only natural after having finished chairman last year that I should now say that the toughest job is commerce and industry. In that setup, as most of you know, there are 450 chairmen, each, collecting from a different industry. And their solicitation covers 34,000 corporations and firms. How the drive goes. In high degree in Manhattan, I think it's 66%. Depends on how successful this division is. The only assurance of high success is having the right chair. We have this year. I present Mr. Brugge. Thank you, Mr. Kevin. The Chiefs of Kamel, the Chairman of the Times, the Ramanans, ladies and gentlemen. It is indeed a great honor to represent the more than 2,000 commerce and industry chairmen in commitment to Manhattan. We'll be wearing jeans to Quest Caremen, also a degree in typical avec los公開os, just for sure at all. In percentage of the 76-7 portions of the צぁ Geschäft.
