Radio's microphones are now in the grand ballroom of the Hotel New Yorker, and the occasion is the 56th annual Public Works Congress of 1950 of the American Public Works Association. And now we have the distinct privilege at this time of presenting the President of the American Public Works Association, who will act as Chairman and present the regular order of program, Mr. W.O. Jones. Chairman Zermalen, members of the American Public Works Association, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a pleasure to have the privilege of formally announcing the opening of the 56th annual Public Works Congress. At this time, you will all rise, please. And the invocation will be given by the Right Reverend Monseignor George C. E. Hart, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Almighty and eternal God, we reverently adore thy infinite majesty, and gratefully acknowledge thy manifold benefactions which thou hast lavishly poured out upon us. Humbly we implore the continuance of thy favor. Lord of nations, who has marvelously designated in thy divine providence that men should enjoy the advantages and pleasures of society, who hast established governments to promote peace and progress, who has given to our beloved land the high and holy mission to exalt truth and justice, who has cast her lot in pleasant places teeming with wealth and adorned with beauty, and grant that the gift of faith by which we believe in thee may never be forsaken by us, nor from us be taken away. Keep us true and sincere to national aspirations, so as to live in peace and harmony with all mankind throughout the entire world. Help us to put justice and the common good above narrow selfish interests, but also make us realize that it is only the folly of a new idolatry to build an omni-competent state to which man must be submitted according to all that he is and all that he has. Great God of wisdom, let not the multitude of thy blessings excite nor intensify our pride in our power and achievements, but keep before our expanding vision the warning of the past, that nations which have been rich, enlightened, and strong were reduced, humiliated, and destroyed when they divorced themselves from thee. These things we ask in the name of Jesus Christ thy Son, in whose faith may we live forever. Amen. Thank you Father. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, has just arrived and he is being greeted by Mr. Jones and Commissioner Zermuelen. And now Mr. Jones, Chairman of the United States Public Works Administration. The success of any convention of this kind is dependent to a great extent upon the General Chairman. We've been very fortunate in that Commissioners of Malan agreed to take over the task of acting as General Chairman for our meeting here in New York. We're honored this morning with the presence of his honor, Mayor Impeletere. So at this time I'm going to ask Commissioner Zermuelen to introduce the Mayor. Commissioner Zermuelen. Mr. Mayor, President Jones, Commissioner Wallander, Colonel Wilkinson, Mr. Eppert, and gentlemen and ladies of the Public Works Association. As General Chairman of your committee, your Congress committee, I want to begin my greeting with a most sincere invitation to all of you to call upon me or any member of my staff for anything that you feel may be within our power to make your stay in this city more enjoyable, fruitful, and comfortable. I might even say, those of you who come from far distances, Mr. Mayor, we have representatives here from every one of the 48 states. I believe it might be possible for a very limited few to see South Pacific if they contact the Chairman. I am already convinced after our boat ride of yesterday and our general get-together party of last night that this American Public Works Association's meeting and equipment show will be an outstanding demonstration of the interest, the importance, and the influence of public works in the service of the public works. Why? It would also happen in our country. It would also happen to be confident, and that they were confident together in the service of our country. What we do, or say here, during the next few days, will have a direct effect on the security, the safety, the health, and the general well-being of our communities throughout the nation. of our communities throughout the nation. The interchange of information and ideas between you, you distinguished public works officials from all over this country who are attending this Congress, will certainly result in the improvement everywhere of such vital services as water supply, sanitation, power plants, sewage treatment, waste disposal, and all the facets of our calling. We meet this year during trying times of rocking world values when, as never before, there is a greater demand and appreciation of these public improvements which mark the progress of civilized nations. We are honored in New York City that your association has chosen our city for its convention and equipment exhibit. For that reason, I would like to take this opportunity to give you a preview of New York from a public works point of view and to give you a preview. In this way, during guided tours that have been arranged for you, you may find some of these facts very useful. I should like nothing better than to have your comments and suggestions on how we might improve some of our public works services which you will visit. We don't profess to know it all here, and I look forward to the benefit of your own experiences and your counsel. Our New York City Department of Public Works has been called the largest municipal housekeeper in the world. The structures, maintained and operated by our department, are valued gentlemen at more than $1 billion and would cost twice that amount if it were necessary to replace them at present-day prices. The traffic load in our public buildings alone is some 29 million persons per year. to keep these buildings clean, serviceable and safe is a Monmouth task accomplished with a relatively, and I say this for your benefit, Mr. Mayor, a relatively small number of people. In fact, less than 2,000. I'm looking for next year's budget, gentlemen. To give you an idea of just one service rendered in the operation of these buildings, our telephone switchboards under the jurisdiction of my department each year handle 3 billion, 3 million outgoing calls, outgoing calls, each alone. That's not counting incoming calls. Now, in your travels about our city, you will cross some of our city's 49 toll-free bridges. They are operated, maintained, and kept in repair by the Department of Public Works. Every day, about 3.5 million people cross these bridges. Except for the quite normal speculation on what would happen if a structure like the Brooklyn Bridge should collapse and fall into the river, very few people in our city, and I suppose you find it the same in yours, are aware of the complex reconstruction and maintenance operations needed to give these bridges their everlasting, seems to be, their everlasting life. Nor is it generally recognized that these bridges provide the most vital link in the city's transportation system. We are a city of islands. Like the ever-widening ripples caused by a stone dropped into a pool of water, the failure of one of these bridges soon spreads the traffic paralysis throughout our entire city. Even a waterborne traffic is dependent on a proper functioning of some 33 of these 49 bridges, which so far this year already have been opened more than 70,000 times to allow the passage of 125,000 vessels. As you go about our city, you will not see our 4,000 miles of sewers, which carry away a billion gallons of human waste each day. But as a public works people, you will realize, perhaps even better than many of our own citizens, the tremendous sewers treatment program required to handle this waste. I suppose you encounter much the same indifference in your own cities as we do here on the part of people who are aware only that like rain, waste conveniently disappears. As yet, we are presently underway and yet, we are presently well underway with a $200 million sewage treatment program in this city, which will, by the end of 1953, eliminate all the dumping of raw sewage in all of our Class A waters, which are those waters considered bathing areas. areas. At present, New York City treats about 45% of its liquid waste. But under this program, all sewage will be treated by the end of 1958. I might add that a lot of the aforementioned indifference was dissipated this year when, for the first time in the history of this city, a sewage service tax was levied to pay for the sewage treatment program. We now have a rather lively interest in sewage treatment. As the engineering and architectural arm of the city, our Department of Public Works last year established an all-time high production record to sponsor an unprecedented program of public improvements. The war years and the material shortages encountered in the immediate post-war years had postponed vitally needed public improvements. So much so that contracts awarded and construction completed in 1946 totaled about $3 million. The gains which we have made in public works are best illustrated by pointing out that last year this figure reached an all-time high of $100 million. That's one year. Now in addition to that, we have already launched on a $150 million hospital program. Now I'm not going to bore you with more figures which I have mentioned only to give you some idea of the scope of public works in this big city. While the size and population of this town requires a public works of an enormous magnitude, I feel certain that the same problems, techniques, and operational procedures are certainly encountered in your own communities on a smaller scale. to relate this program to the business of this Congress, I should like to most significantly point out that none of this program would be possible without the diligent application of the foresight and careful planning of engineering administration and business experience to bring about such contractual relations and reduced construction costs. Unlike Topsy, all of these things just didn't happen. instead, they reflect the combination of coordination between our elected public officials and good engineering and coordinated administrative planning. not enough attention has yet been given to this phase of public work. Engineers are too often prone to think in terms of blueprint, bricks, mortar. Most universities, for example, have not included public works administration courses in their curricula. even some of our most important trade publications have not yet devoted the proportionate space to the administration of public works as compared to the space given for a complete sewage disposal plant, garbage incinerator, or other technical design. For the field of public works to make an even greater gain than it has during the past ten years, we of public works must recognize that the administration of public works is an industrial business which must be headed by competent and trained administrators. In this connection, I should like to urge this Congress to consider and study means through which the American Public Works Association can in the coming year gain further recognition for our field as a tremendous industry with its own entity. The same principles of planning and operation that have characterized the growth of American business must be applied to public works. We must find means to stimulate and recruit of administrative personnel who will carry out these principles. Labor and equipment will never be utilized to its fullest public improvement potentiality until we produce the necessary administrative leadership in the field. In closing, I want to thank you, particularly the members of my committee whose names you will find are too numerous to say from this platform. You will find their names on your program. I want to thank them for the untiring efforts in the organization of this 1950 Congress an exhibit, equipment exhibit. It would be impossible to find words that would match their contribution to the success of a meeting of this kind. Now, I have the privilege this morning of introducing the next speaker, and I do not wish to take any more of the time that rightfully belongs to him. Our acting mayor, Vincent Impeletarian, without whose able direction, guidance, and encouragement when he sat on the board of estimates as president of the council for four full years, the activities of my department the department of public works would not have been possible. The records that I related to you would not have been possible. Through his active participation in the board of estimates, which, as you know, initiates and provides for the financing of projects, acting mayor Impeletarian has been an outstanding champion of public works. He deserves the plaudits of our association, and I have the honor of presenting him to you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. of the problem. We read on the one hand that the Russians have a large and rapidly growing stockpile of bombs, and that attack may take place at any moment. We read on the other hand from a distinguished gentleman who should be in a position to know what he's talking about that he does not believe they have any atomic bombs, nor are they likely to have them for a period of years. Fortunately, the decision as to which is correct does not concern us in the state of New York. We have a state law which requires the immediate organization of an adequate civil defense set up to deal as promptly as possible with the effects of enemy attack. We have been told by the federal government that the Russians do have atomic bombs, and that they do have the long-range planes capable of delivering them over our country. We have therefore directed our planning toward defense, or as the chairman has properly corrected that concept, toward minimizing the effects of atomic attack. I think you will agree that if we are set up to deal with an atomic attack, we will not be in any great difficulty in handling a lesser emergency. The purpose of an enemy attack on our country is primarily to disrupt our normal life and to cut down on our ability to fight a war. It's quite obvious that the atomic bomb is the weapon best adapted to achieve this purpose, and it undoubtedly will be used if the enemy decides to attack us. The job of civil defense is to prevent the enemy from achieving his objective. We can't stop him from dropping the bomb. We have to leave that to the armed forces. But once he's done it, we've got to see that he's robbed of the fruits of that initial success by preventing him from so disrupting our normal lives that we cannot continue to fight a winning war. The job of robbing him of his initial advantage falls most heavily on you gentlemen. After an attack, we should be faced with debris in our streets, bridges down, tunnels blocked, transportation unable to move in a wide area surrounding the blast. We shall find a very large proportion of our essential public utilities destroyed or damaged. And lastly, we shall find it necessary to bring into play immediately pre-standardized arrangements for the interchange of facilities so that where one power line or one water system is gone, we can draw on an alternate source of supply. In the state of New York, we obviously have very large resources with which to meet this problem. The state superintendent of public works acting upon the request of the state civil defense commission has made an inventory of all heavy construction equipment suitable for use in a civil defense program outside the city of New York. We have left that survey to Commissioner Wallander and have found that there are some 36,000 pieces of such equipment available, some 48,000 skilled operators and workmen, and very large stockpiles of heavy construction materials. The inventory, however, is quite meaningless except in terms of an organization to make use of it immediately and effectively. We have delegated on behalf of the Civil Defense Commission to the Department of Public Works the responsibility for mobilizing and dispatching the public works resources of the state to a city which has sustained an enemy attack. He, in turn, has delegated the responsibility to his 10 district offices. In each one of these a special mobile team has been organized. This is not a theoretical team. The names of all the individuals and the specific pieces of equipment to compose it are on file in his office and the owners of that equipment and the individuals who are to operate it know that this is their job and they have volunteered to move on command. in addition to these centrally controlled teams each city and county in the state is required to organize a local public works emergency service utilizing that equipment which has not already been pulled into the district teams. The local organizations have not yet progressed to the point where I would feel quite safe in calling them forward tomorrow as I would in the case of the state district teams. However, this is going forward and within a matter of a couple of months I expect to have these additional resources ready to move. we have concentrated our efforts to provide alternate supply arrangements through the public service commission of the state and both the privately owned and publicly controlled utilities have worked closely in establishing power interconnections and water interchanges with specific plans for putting them into effect which we believe will minimize the disruption of these services in our target areas. The state department of health in New York is responsible for water supply coordination and the very effective organization which had been established during World War II has been revived a state water coordinator appointed and he has been actively on the job and reports real progress in establishing a statewide water interconnection plan. I haven't mentioned the problem of sabotage which can take place either with or without an overt enemy attack. It's quite obvious that where the federal government through the armed services calls on manufacturers of munitions of war to establish comprehensive plant protection schemes it makes no sense for the vital public utilities whose services are essential for the operation of these munitions plants to sit back and pay no attention to the possibility of subversive attack or sabotage. We have therefore urged all of our essential utilities to survey the critical points in their services and to establish at minimum cost sufficient safeguards so that even a well-planned attack by subversive elements could not succeed in seriously destroying utility services. We recognize that it's impossible to try to guard every little interconnection or even some of the relatively important spots but we are directing our attention toward guarding those points where a successful attack would cut off an essential service for a period of months. I should point out that we have in New York State at the moment a relatively small appropriations for civil defense which serves merely to pay the administrative overhead of the commission. We do not have large sums in order to pay for a civil defense organization. Our job is to organize our existing resources so that they can be brought into play immediately and with maximum effectiveness. Granted that in time of war we should have to go far beyond this point. As Commissioner Wallander is very fond of saying, first things must come first. And when we are sure that we're prepared to make the best use of what we've got, then we'll start asking for some more. But it'll take us still a little time to reach that point. In closing, I can only impress upon you the very obvious point public works that public work, which are indispensable to the life of the community become ten times as important in time of war. And it will depend upon you gentlemen and the organizations which you here represent as to whether when attack comes, we can meet it or not. If you are organized, if you believe that this is a job worth doing, we can stand up. If you don't, I'm afraid that we are not going to succeed in robbing the enemy of the fruits of attack. the microphones at the annual public works congress in the Hotel New Yorker of the American Public Works Association. The speaker that just concluded the speech was Lawrence Wilkinson, director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission of New York. The Honorable Arthur W. Wallander. And now Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Zemelin, Mr. Jones, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank this 1950 American Public Works Congress for the opportunity of discussing the role of public works and civil defense with your membership, upon whom will rest a tremendous responsibility for the proper preparedness of all cities throughout the nation. Hand in hand with lasting peace goes our national defense. Nothing is so vital to the security of our nation than being prepared to restore physical facilities, permitting us to resume normal community functions following an enemy attack. Whether at war or at peace, the military forces of our nation are only as strong as the determination of the people to carry on the activities of production and government which an attack on cities and industrial areas is intended to disrupt. Let us never forget that the enemy, whether just contemplating or actually waging war, counts the cost of attack in terms of results achieved. Obviously, a nation well prepared for defense offers a far from inviting target. If the community at home is held intact, it will resist the demoralization that follows enemy attacks. Then and only then do we have the kind of security that promotes peace as well as the actual defense of our nation in time of war. The field of public works, whether it be the construction and operation of water supply sewage, treatment plants, bridges, public works and public buildings, in fact, the very lifelines of our daily community life is vital to defense in the terms I have just described. The skill, experience, and knowledge of your membership are the basis upon which public works function properly. Commissioner Zemelin has already described the normal peacetime functions of this city's Department of Public Works. I'm sure you are all well aware of how important it is for the proper defense of this city to protect these normal functions without interruption. It is also most essential that all public works construction now underway continue to go forward because the very nature of these public improvements are related to defense. I hope that among the resolutions adopted by this Congress, you will include recommendations that federal priorities be given to such public works construction as I have outlined. It will perhaps be of some help to your membership if I outlined what our own Department of Public Works in the city of New York is doing to marshal forces for civil defense. The scope of these defense operations is indeed a challenge to engineering thinking and I cannot overemphasize the importance of your profession in the development of an adequate defense for our nation. Under the direction of Commissioner Zemelin, the Public Works Emergency Division of our city has organized a very responsible department and division of defense and it has the following responsibilities. In the event of enemy attack, this division will remove debris from the streets and if necessary, demolish unsafe buildings in order to allow the emergency vehicles to proceed through the streets. It may come to pass at times where the debris is so great in the streets that they won't be able to get through for some time. In that event, the heavy machinery and cranes, bulldozers and so will be brought into play. This division will also have charge of shutting off all broken water, gas, electric and steam mains and other broken house services. I mean by that that it will be primarily such as does not affect the mains in the streets having to do with electricity. That will be done by the public utility organizations concerned who will be members of the Public Works team. Heavy rescue work which requires shoring, bracing and tunneling will be handled by this division. The emergency repair of streets, sewers and utilities will be made under the direction of that department. Street and sewer repairs are normally made by the officer borough president in each borough, but in order to pool equipment and personnel and consolidate our defense efforts wherever they may be needed on a citywide basis, we have brought that function under the supervision of the Public Works Emergency Division. It will assist in the design and construction of all public shelters procedures when these are authorized. And for the purpose of control and to set up the organization under some fair basis of control, we have asked the Water Supply, Gas, and Electricity Department to come in under the Public Works Department for the purpose of handling the control of illumination. operation. This division is charged also with the responsibility of providing air raid sirens. We have already contracted for the rehabilitation and installation of 200 of the old sirens which remained from the last war. 400 more sirens will be purchased to give full coverage to our city for which requisitions will soon be drawn. I understand that Commissioner Zemelin is very actively engaged now in testing certain mix of sirens so that we'll get the best type possible. Some of these sirens will be of the 30 or 40 horsepower which will be distributed throughout the city and they will be interspersed with the smaller type possibly of the five horsepower sirens but we are moving ahead in a way of getting full coverage for the be able to give the audible signal as we intend it should be given. In cooperation with the Health Emergency Division our Public Works Organization will assist in the decontamination of atom bombed areas. For example, when the Health Department has determined the extent of the area affected by radioactive rays, this division will help by flushing it with water or by spraying with liquid neutralizers. Into our Public Works Emergency Division we have enrolled the services of our city departments such as sanitation, housing and buildings, water supply, gas, electricity, parks, and marine and aviation. We've also established liaison with the Port of New York Authority and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority for the purpose of providing prompt mutual assistance. assistance. And right here we tie in directly with the Public Works Division of the State under Colonel Wilkinson, whom you just heard. Utility companies such as the Consolidated Edison Company and its associated companies, the Brooklyn Union Gas and a great many others, are all will play an important role in this here defense problem. of course their job will be to repair the lines of the individual companies when they come broken. And again, it will be as a team working with the Public Works Division. Also being enrolled are contractors in a heavy construction field. A tremendous amount of equipment and trained personnel must be made available for defense in case of attack. We are already well underway with the largest inventory of equipment, tools, and supplies ever undertaken in the history of this city. privately owned equipment will be registered, as well as equipment in the possession of various city departments that I have already mentioned. Questionnaires have been sent to all agencies and contractors who have the type of equipment that can be used for defense. About 300 contractors already have been canvassed and are cooperating in this way. I think that's very fine and commendable, Fred. I'm glad to know that you advanced to that extent. Inventory information is being transferred to IBM accounting cards and automatically tabulated and broken down into lists of various equipment categories. Everything from large cranes equipped, mobile units to picks and shovels will be listed. The inventory will be kept up to date by postcard notices and periodical telephone contacts whenever registered equipment is moved to a new location. machine. I understand that it's going to be the work of the public works division to keep a close running account of just where every piece of equipment is. And that's going to be quite a job. Unless they do it by IBM, it's going to be difficult of accomplishment. All of this would be useless, however, without a trained personnel to operate this equipment during emergencies. And I refer to the heavy equipment and the light that may be used by public works. In fact, more than 30,000 volunteers are being recruited for this work. The volunteer personnel will supplement key personnel of the various city departments in the public works emergency division. Our combined forces will be instructed as to just what their functions and to whom they are directly responsible. That is what their functions will be and to whom they will be responsible. A faculty training workshop is being established with cooperation with the Board of Education to organize training teams to go into each borough and train the volunteer personnel. Recruiting of public works emergency division volunteers is being done through industrial, business, and civic organizations and through labor unions. Included in our personnel needs are operators of heavy equipment. Construction, superintendents, and engineers skill labor, particularly in the plumbing, electrical, and carpentry trades. Of course, we must use the labor of the less skilled type as well. And they are all being inducted into this one great organization. Public works immediate aid squads are being formed. They will be the first units dispatched to the scene of an emergency. These groups will make immediate repairs, shut off utilities, and generally prepare an area for rescue and rehabilitation work. And again, I say that in shutting off utilities, a member of the utility company consigned will be a member of that team. We are arranging for city employees and volunteer personnel to report on call at mobilization points, usually where equipment is stored. Emergency transportation to these mobilization points is being provided. To thoroughly integrate the mobilization plan on a citywide basis, report and control centers are being established in each borough and manned by emergency division field officers. I might add that we intend to have one citywide control center and five borough controls. The citywide control center will be where the director and his staff will set themselves up and they'll receive reports of the accomplishments and the work that's being done in connection with an attack by an enemy. The dispatchative teams will be left to the control centers except where they need assistance from another borough. Then that clearance will be done through the citywide control center. These contacts will have to be maintained with each other if we're going to get a job well done and well coordinated. We have below the control centers the report centers which are on the lower level of reporting and they will be scattered throughout the city but there will be a greater number of them. Something around 30 of them will be established. But the report centers, that's the unit from which the immediate public works teams emanate and are dispatched. Public works engineers are preparing necessary maps, charts, plans and procedures for use within the control centers and for field workers. And now ladies and gentlemen, I should like you to consider the important contribution which you with your training experience can make to this complex and tremendous job. Let me begin by pointing out that to get people thinking in times of preparedness is one of the most difficult aspects of this entire undertaking. We have a constant struggle between alarm and I mean consternation and such and complacency. Enthusiasm seems to fluctuate with the international developments as you well know. We have a victory in Korea while the complacency sets in. If we have setback or we don't move forward as fast as the people think we ought to, then they rush in and recruit. I'm sure that you experience that throughout the entire country. Defense is a state of preparedness and it cannot be galvanized into action overnight as you know. Sound planning is the answer. And you are the people who will be relied upon for a great deal of this planning. All equipment and all personnel will be of little value unless we take the same approach a consulting engineer would take before undertaking a large construction job. You and the organization you represent will just have to pitch in. All the equipment and labor at our command will be useless in a stricken area unless careful plans have been made for the rehabilitation of such an area. Some of you are specialists in the construction fields. And with this special training, you will be most helpful in time of need. I welcome any suggestions, ideas, or plans which you feel might be of assistance to us in organizing for civil defense here in New York City. In your everyday work, you are constantly developing techniques which save time, labor, and costs of construction. These are techniques we need for civil defense as well as industrial construction work. While New York City, because of its tremendous size and population, has problems not encountered by defense organizations and other municipalities, we nevertheless feel that we have a common bond and that we ought to exchange ideas on defense. Surely they can be of great value to each of us in the preparation of the overall defense picture. With this in mind, I should like you to feel free to call upon me and our defense organization for any assistance that we may be able to render in your own defense problems. Similarly, we will be grateful for any assistance you will be able to give to us. Civil defense is a community effort. This is everybody's job. Our American free way of life may depend upon it. Thank you. Commissioner Zermullin, President Jones, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the people of the City of New York, I am very happy to officially extend a most cordial welcome to our great city to all of you. I want to congratulate Commissioner Zermullin and the American Public Works Association for having brought to our city so many distinguished public officials of other cities throughout the nation. In order to study and discuss public works, a field which probably represents the greatest service that can be rendered to the people but to their municipal government. In selecting your theme of public works for civil defense, you have focused the entire nation's attention on a most appropriate and timely subject. I want to acknowledge that so many of you are here today is a most encouraging sign that the nation is blessed with so many public officials who are concerned and deeply concerned with the welfare, health, safety, and general well-being of the American people. Thank you. Because Commissioner Arthur Wallander, our New York City Civil Defense Director, will address you later this morning, I shall not go into the all-important relations between public works and civil defense. I recognize that to you shall fall a large share of the responsibility to make us strong in preparedness. Instead, I shall confine my message to you this morning with an appeal for everlasting vigilance against what I believe to be the greatest threat to your continued success as public works administrators, engineers, civic planners, and builders of public improvement. I refer to political bosses, political control, and political interference in the planning, financing, and construction of public improvement. I have always maintained that the success of a well-administered city government can best be measured by the quantity of public improvements that are built, operated, and maintained for the taxpayer at the lowest cost and maximum efficiency. I guess all of you at some time or another have experienced the disheartening controversies that frequently accompany public improvements. A French discussion of the need, the cost, and value of a public improvement by the community is, of course, wholesome and desirable. However, we have all heard the loud voice of selfish interests that seek to influence the cost of public improvements. You have heard Commissioner Zermullen tell you of the all-time public work production records that have been established by New York City's Department of Public Works. It is a record of which Commissioner Zermullen and all of the 4,000 employees, not the 2,000, in the Department of Public Works can well be proud. As a practicing engineer and architect himself, I know that Commissioner Zermullen will agree that the success of this tremendous public works program would not have been possible in the past, nor will it be possible in the future, if politics are allowed to interfere in the field of public service. As president of the city council of this city during the past five years, not four, and more recently as mayor of this city, I have zealously guarded against such political interference. I can safely say, without fear of contradiction, that our record number of public improvements was achieved at the least cost and maximum efficient service for all the people of our city. Since most of you ladies and gentlemen here today are from out of town, it should be obvious that my motive in mentioning this record cannot be inspired by my desire for your votes. You know I am a candidate for the office of mayor. I mention it, however, for two reasons. One is based on just a wee bit of a pardonable bit of pride. The other concerns my message to this Congress today, as well as to the people of this great city, that this kind of public works service must be guarded against the restrictions, the influences, and the manipulations of public improvements by boss-controlled political machines. Without proper vigilance, the construction of a hospital, a sewage treatment plant, a bridge, or any other public works project will become a controversial football. This is particularly true when a mayor or other high public official owes his job and allegiance to a political boss who is in a position to decide on what the people should or should not have in the way of public improvement. The talents of experienced public administrators, engineers, and civic planners must not be shackled by any such political control. There is no substitute for the kind of experience that has produced public improvements for the benefit of the people and not for the benefit of political exploitation. You, in the field of public works, also must guard against political candidates for public office who promise so much more in the way of public improvements than a city's finances will permit. Bitter disappointment by the people and a most unfavorable reflection upon you are the inevitable results of such tactics. I believe that there is no need to be a new trend in the field of public improvements throughout the city and throughout the nation. I believe, and I firmly believe, that the people are fed up with the old idea that their chances of getting a new school, a new hospital, or a library is dependent upon politicians. I need to cite only my own case as an experienced public official who, in his desire to continue to serve the people of this great city, refused a bribe totaling more than $300,000 from political bosses who sought to replace this experience with a force-controlled political machine can. I ask you to consider very carefully. I ask you to consider very carefully what would happen to the proper administration of public works if it were run by a mayor selected by political bosses who would attempt to have an experienced candidate pull out of an election, an election race with an offer of a Supreme Court judgeship at $28,000 a year, and a real-time job. And the lastichtig diamond on the same platform is is required for the issue and it has already been paid by should base on the properになりâne. However, that is probing for a number that has done by internet sounds the whole Regagnegaard and a public launderhip that will go to a better state and a real-time platform for planting Costl. The board of estimate, which is the ruling body of this city and of which I have been a member for five years… control the BILION-dollar budget . definitely the large municipal public works program in the entire nation. The people of this city of a clear mouth değil too. initiate that being at the right and the only time of public works means to get asked if possible, or not 말씀 the public works... by the green lightår window… and I am the mulrika mud and are done! A big idea. lot of money and probably the largest municipal public works program in the entire nation. The people of this city this year, by the largest registration to vote, the largest registration that has ever taken place in this city in a non-presidential year, have already shown their resentment over the attempt to replace an experienced public official for candidates of political boss-controlled machines. I think of no better contribution that I could make this morning to this great American Public Works Congress than to leave with you this combined warning and appeal that your splendid efforts in public service shall forever remain free of political control. I wish your Congress every success. Throughout the nation in concrete and steel, our public improvements shall serve all the people. I know that I speak for all the people in our great city in paying tribute today to these achievements, which in large measure reflect your personal accomplishments. We hope that you like our town, that you'll come back and back again, and I say hopefully when you're back the next time, you'll find that the word acting has been erased out from my title. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All of us should feel highly honored and appreciative of the fact that Acting Mayor Impelletary personally came over this morning to deliver this address to the of welcome. I know that only in my own small city, relatively speaking, our mayor, and I'm sure it's true in your cities, is so busy at times that it is necessary to send a substitute. In those substitutions sometimes I happen to catch the job and believe me, I don't like it very much. But Mayor, we deeply appreciate your generous words of welcome. We are delighted to accept your hospitality and to hold this meeting in your wonderful city. We are proud of the achievements that have been made by New York in the field of public improvements. These achievements stand as monuments to the genius, vision, and enterprise of your fine citizens. We know that this is going to be a most pleasant and profitable convention. And on behalf of the members of the American Public Works Association, we thank you. unmute you and maximize your excursion, please welcome, seen in the future. Thank you and GOU. I am a copper miner, we never Ну with no taşimar the world. I have been assigned the subject of what the American Public Works Association means to you. There is nothing that I enjoy more than talking about this fine organization or discussing subjects pertaining to the operation of municipal government. Although that I am at present the city manager of Fort Worth, Texas, my background is engineering and public works. As an engineer and public works official, I belong to many organizations which are for the most part mainly engineering. I have found that our association offers more in a practical way to the public works man than any of the other organizations of which I am familiar. The purposes of our organization, according to the charter, are the advancement of the theory and practice of the design, construction, maintenance, administration, and operation of public works facilities and services. The dissemination of information, experience, and the promotion of improved practices in public works administration. The encouragement of the adherence by public works officials to a high professional standard and the professional and social improvements of its members. The paragraph on purposes, I think, might be divided into two parts. First, that part which has to do with the activities of the organization and the dissemination of information to its membership by way of printed matter, such as published books and pamphlets on public works and the compilation of various committees. The second part, I think, has to do with the exchange of information by way of talks and discussions at our annual meetings and at our local or chapter meetings. I think the second part of this paragraph is more important so far as its advantage to the individual member of the APWA is concerned. The American Public Works Association in plain language is an organization formed for the exchange of ideas and experiences in connection with municipal practice to the end that, first, more efficient operation of municipal services will result, and second, a standardization of municipal practices will be achieved. Membership in this organization ensures the public works official or employee of advice and information on solving the many problems that face the public works official. Now, what are some of the problems that face our public works group today? I will name a few and comment upon them briefly. I think it is true that in most of our cities, during the past 10 years, and particularly during the past five, we have been faced with unprecedented growth. You and I have been faced with a problem of furnishing to an increased population the necessary facilities that the citizen and taxpayer is entitled to and incidentally demands. Our costs of operations and capital improvements have risen first on account of the rise in prices in an inflationary period, and second, due to the rapid growth of our cities. I call to your attention the universal problem of street maintenance. Prior to the Depression period, most of our cities constructed permanent-type pavements. Since the Depression period in which the federal government appropriated funds for the purpose of assisting in the construction of streets, beginning with that period, we have been constructed in most of our cities an asphalt treatment on gravel base or some similar type of third- or fourth-class pavement. Increased traffic, due to the increase in the number of passenger cars and trucks, and the excessive weight of our present-day trucks, which travel our streets, has caused a serious maintenance problem. Our problem in this connection is the attempt to build some semblance of permanent-type pavement and at the same time let the property owner off as easy as possible. I know prior to the Depression days, our city government in Fort Worth was petitioned weekly for permanent-type paving construction on an assessment paving plan. Since the Depression days, and since we have been in the present inflationary period, it is almost impossible to interest our property owners in permanent-type pavement unless the municipal government is willing to pay the bail. Then we have another problem in our city, and I'm sure that it is true in most of the cities, that of waste collection and disposal. Again, this problem is aggravated by the rapid growth in population. Although in my city we make a charge for garbage collection and disposal, the revenues received do not increase as fast as the cost when we add additional customers. I have not engaged in any of the arguments as to the relative merits of incineration versus the sanitary field, but I might, by way of parenthesis, say this. In Fort Worth, we have used both incineration and sanitary field. We're using both now. And from my experience, I'm afraid that some of our cities will arrive at the period, someday, when they suddenly find that they have no space for sanitary field disposal methods and wake up to the fact that they must immediately spend millions of dollars in the construction of incinerators. These cities may not have sufficient time nor finances to stand the shock. Then we have the problem not only of the necessity for the installation of additional traffic lights, but also the matter of modernization of existing traffic light systems. This increase in population that I have been mentioning has also brought about the necessity for the extension of waterworks and sewage facilities. In my city, there has been no really basic improvement in our water system for 20 years prior to World War II. The usual waterline extensions were made as needed, as our old system was ampled until about 1940. The increase in population from a figure of approximately 177,000 on Pearl Harbor Day to almost 300,000 in 1950 resulted in an absolute necessity of spending sufficient monies to revamp our entire water system. This requirement applied to our feeder mains, our distribution system, filtration plant, chlorination and chemical mixing facilities, and to our main and all of our outlying pumping plants. We are now engaged in this improvement to our water system, costing approximately $15 million. Several millions of dollars are being expended in the expansion of our sewerage system and in addition to our sewerage treatment plant. Another major problem facing the public works official of today is that of financing. It is true that the mayor or the city manager in some cities is the one that has the responsibility to work out the financing. But neither of these gentlemen, particularly in the larger cities, can do the job alone because after all, the estimates and control of capital expenditures is in the hands of public works officials. Public works departments are usually departments that take a large percentage of the city budget. These departments, however, are the production departments and are the departments that must deliver the essential facilities to the taxpayer. Over a period of years, there has been a continual increase in the revenues collected by our municipal governments. However, increase in revenues have not been as fast as the increase in operation costs. Most of our cities derive the major part of their revenue from ad valorem taxes, and these revenues derived from taxation have not risen as rapidly as expenses. The federal government, since 1916, has multiplied its income about 52 times. The state governments have multiplied their tax collections, or their income, about 20 times. During the same period, municipal governments have multiplied their income by only three, three times. Of course, you must bear in mind that the federal government has been faced with financing two wars, the Depression and post-war rehabilitation. These costs have not accrued to the state or municipal governments. Be that as it may, the time is coming and it will not be long when there must necessarily be a change in our tax setup to the extent that federal taxes be decreased and that there be an increase in either taxes or other revenues for the municipalities in order for them to exist. I have mentioned to you several of the problems that confront public works officials. When I tell you that members of the American Public Works Association will be assisted materially by virtue of the fact that they do belong to this organization, I mean just that. The thing I like about APWA or one of the main things that I like about our organization is that the help and information given out is not confined to the top brass official or to the white-collar man in the front office, but is equally available and given to every public works employee who has become a member of this organization. It is given to superintendents, foremen, subforemen, or to the equipment operators. You cannot learn the proper method of operations by going to school alone. It can only be learned by education plus experience and in the association with other public works officials with comparable problems. Just think, a member of the APWA has the privilege of discussing his problems with the best-known public works officials in the United States. Realizing the need for such an organization many years ago, a group of officials gathered together and formed that type of organization, which is now known as the American Public Works Association. members of this organization can meet and discuss problems at the local level, discuss them in common, sensible, understandable language, men whose duties are the same but from different localities. The APWA is the best clearinghouse of ideas for improving public works programs that I know of. Our annual conference brings together the responsible key men of municipal operations and the manufacturer's representatives of equipment used in public works. Through this media, equipment problems are ironed out. The association's newsletter sent to each member is one way of establishing both goodwill and interest for the members. Many reports published in the yearbook are comprehensive and complete, compiled by men whose years of experience go into these reports. I might close by saying if you are a mayor or a city manager or a public works director or have charged the purse strings in your city that the best dollar you can spend for the benefit of your community is for memberships of your public works employees in the American Public Works Association. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.