Good afternoon. From the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor, your city station presents the Book and Author Luncheon, transcribed just two hours earlier this afternoon. We're to hear from three authors whose books have recently been published, Justice William O. Douglas, Samuel Schellabarger, and Ogden Nash. The chairman of the luncheon is Erita Van Doren, literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune, under whose auspices the Book and Author Luncheon is being held. And now, Mrs. Van Doren. ...with a thesis in Anglo-Saxon. He's taught English at Princeton, has lived in most of the countries of Europe, knows the literature of those countries, and reads and speaks French, German, Swedish, Italian, Dutch, and Spanish, as well as Greek and Latin. It's appalling, isn't it? I mentioned this unusually rich, scholastic equipment in detail, since we are apt to know Mr. Schellabarger only as a vastly popular historical novelist. Captain from Castile, Prince of Foxes, The King's Cavalier have been read by hundreds of thousands of people. And though we've recognized the excellence of these novels and enjoyed the reading of them, we have not probably realized what careful scholarship has gone into them. Mr. Schellabarger says that customarily, he goes through three processes in the background research for his novels. First, he soaks himself in the literature of his period, trying to think and write in the idiom and vocabulary of the time. He finds folklore and songs, popular adages and sayings, useful as indicating a great deal about the psychology of the people he is writing about. The next step is to familiarize himself with the food, the clothes, the roads, the means of travel, the architecture, and all the externals of the period. And lastly, he must know well the historical facts with which he is dealing. For he realizes that though fiction ought and must in small ways take liberties with history, it must never distort it. This may all seem to you good background for the writing of his latest book, Lord Chesterfield and His World. Actually, the case is the other way around. Mr. Schellabarger wrote his biography of the Earl before he ever wrote fiction. It was published in England in 1935 and enthusiastically acclaimed. But publishers here were afraid that an American audience would find little interest in a biography of an 18th century Englishman by a then unknown author. So it is only now, when Mr. Schellabarger has won an enviable reputation as an historical novelist, that the Chesterfield is published in this country. The critical reaction here has been much what it was in England, with the added fact that scholars and critics are now able to point out that only a dramatic novelist could present the character of Chesterfield so clearly and could so vividly recreate the stage on which this 18th century aristocrat moved. For Mr. Schellabarger emphatically feels that Chesterfield has significance for us, not only because of the famous letters to his son, but because of what those letters mean about the philosophy of the man who wrote them and the age he represents. In a biography, sound in scholarship, and at the same time lively and readable, he has succeeded in opening our eyes to a time and a character full of meaning for our own day. Now I am glad to be able to introduce to you the author of Lord Chesterfield and His World, Samuel Schellabarger. It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen and distinguished guests, that no opening pleasantry on the part of a luncheon speaker can be quite as agreeable as the promise that he will be brief, particularly when he precedes Justice Douglas and Ogden Nash. So let me reassure you at once. They say that brevity is the soul of wit, and with the author of Mr. Ogden Nash's brilliant epigrams here on the platform, who will deny it? Certainly. Indeed, I wish I had something of his wit in order adequately to present to you today a glimpse of my old friend, Lord Chesterfield, himself a great wit, whom I learned to know long before I had any dealings with captains, princes, or cavaliers. On the whole, I've spent years in his company, often as a critic, and occasionally as an admirer. You may ask, why devote so much time to Chesterfield, and who was Chesterfield anyway? If I try to answer those questions, I shall be doing as much as a short talk allows. The fact is that most of us have favorite periods of history that we like to read about and visit in our imagination, and it happens that my two favorite periods are the mid-Renaissance and the 18th century. They both appeal to me for the same reasons. So many things happened then that are of importance now. So many people lived then who, whether we know about them or not, influence us now. Both periods were so curiously modern in their tough-minded, hard-boiled attitude. Both were in revolt against the past and immensely conscious of the future. In both periods, the human spirit burned intensely, brilliantly, created a fascinating, colorful world. We know more about ourselves if we know about them. To mention only one person, out of scores in the Renaissance, take Machiavelli. He wore a hose in Dublin. He lived in the age of the Borgias. But the philosophy of ruse and force which he so splendidly expounded in the prince and the discorsi is at present convulsing our world in the form of power politics. And consider the 18th century. We are apt to think of it in terms of a vanished leisure and elegance, a sort of fairy book world of bows and bells, formal gardens, salons in Paris, splendor of Versailles, but the odd thing is that the people of that age were closer to us in spirit and in mind than our own grandfathers. What has happened to the world of Queen Victoria? To its faith in that divine event towards which creation moves, as Tennyson put it. To its confidence that human nature was every day in every way getting better and better. To its piety, morality, and enthusiasm. What do we think of the divine event now as we wait for an atomic war? Do we bask as our grandfathers did impiety and morality? No, but step back into the 18th century and you will feel at home. Then as now, there was the sense of an impending doom. The oncoming of the French Revolution was very, very much in the consciousness of people. Then as now, sophistication took the place of belief and as regards enthusiasm about human nature, you may recall that while Herbert Spencer in the days of our grandfathers could write with confidence about the nobility of mankind and the fact that it was improving constantly, Dean Swift a century earlier, observed that humanity was the most pernicious race of little, odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth. Now, perhaps we wouldn't go as far as that, but recalling the barbarous atrocities of the last 20 years which would have astonished Attila the Hung and with places like Dachau and Siberia in mind, I submit that our present view is closer to Swift's than to Spencer's. Yes, you would feel mentally at home in the 18th century and more than that you would be stimulated, amused, and charmed by its variety, its wit, its ironies. Perhaps you would not approve of it any more than you do of our own time, but after all, one can disapprove and yet be interested and even sometimes enjoy. Now, one of the foremost representatives of this sparkling and exciting but skeptical and sophisticated period was Philip Dormer Stanhope, 4th Earl of Chesterfield. Indeed, I can think of no person who reflects so many of its social, political, and intellectual aspects as he. Born in 1694, he died 79 years later and therefore had a long perspective of life. By birth, by training, by natural gifts, and long experience, he fitted his role as a great nobleman of the great age of noblemen. He was wealthy, prominent, and admired. He was very well read, versatile, and cosmopolitan, one of the most resourceful diplomats of his time, a splendid orator in parliament, an able administrator, a friend of the leading personalities of the age, a great wit, a man of pleasure. He studied human nature from a great many different angles. His life inevitably involves a panorama of his world. Following his career, we meet most of the celebrated people of the day, the princes, statesmen, politicians, the philosophers and writers, the fashionable men and women of England and France. We visit the courts and capitals, the pleasure resorts and spas, the clubs and salons. He is an almost universal guide. And if you are drawn to the 18th century, as I am, that is a very good reason for spending a long time with him. But it is not the only, nor indeed the chief reason. He represents not only the 18th century, but a timeless way of thought and action which is just as prevalent now as it was 200 or 2,000 years ago. And what is more, he has given a classic expression to this philosophy in one of the world's immortal books. I pointed out that Machiavelli is just as modern as power politics. He applied worldly rationalism, worldly wisdom, to the art of government. in the same way Chesterfield is modern. He applied worldly wisdom to individual conduct, to the art of getting on, of exploiting human nature to one's own advantage. His letters to his son are the classic treatise on this art, and as long as men are interested in the subject, the book will be read, and its author remembered. And if you doubt that people in large numbers are practicing that art today, please consider the careers of your success-loving friends and contemporaries, businessmen, diplomats, politicians, labor leaders, anyone who is competing in a world of competitors. Consider, too, Mr. Dale Carnegie's very popular book on how to win friends and influence people. Notice that word, influence. For what Chesterfield wrote about was how to influence people with a view to personal profit, how best, how most subtly to open the world oyster. And this, I suggest, is just as fascinating a topic now as it was in 1750. Manners with which Chesterfield's name is associated are only a part of this, nor are they merely the elaborate court manners of his age. He keeps pointing out that manners should constantly vary with people and places, and that what was correct at court would be silly in a country village. His art of manners, which is merely a development of the golden rule, would be just as effective now as then in a modern factory as in the pump room at Bath. But observe that the golden rule can be used in two ways, to benefit others, or to benefit oneself by influencing others, and that the purpose for which it is used makes a very great deal of difference. As you know, the letters were written to Chesterfield's illegitimate son whom he was educating on the continent. They were written in confidence and published after his death. he would have been shocked and indignant if he could have known anything about it. But they were at once enormously popular, have been translated in all the languages, have been constantly in print since their publication. Let me recommend them to you. At least the last half of them, you will find them very colorful and amusing. You may even find them useful. But like Machiavelli's prints, the letters, though widely read, have been just as widely damned as cynical and wicked. Why is it that two such amoral books should have been so popular? Well, apart from their literary charm, I'm afraid that many people, while publicly condemning them, publicly, privately admit their truth to human nature and relish their very unusual frankness. And I suspect, too, that many people, of course, not you or I, do not practice what they preach, but practice what Machiavelli and Chesterfield preached. And yet, to be perfectly honest, I don't think that worldly wisdom is as satisfactory a guide of life and education as it is cracked up to be. Chesterfield's son, upon whom all this advice was lavished, and Caesar Borgia, Machiavelli's hero, were both failures. The trouble is that the gospel of common sense and reason leaves out of account human faculties that are so much more powerful than reason. On one side, for example, the hunger of the heart, the interest in objectives that are much bigger than personal advantage, and on the other side, the animal passions, which reason by itself is unable to control. Yes, Chesterfieldianism leaves out so much, among other things, happiness. At the end of his life, Chesterfield penned the following lines which are among the saddest and the most eloquent he ever wrote. You can see him standing at the window of his library in Mayfair looking out. I feel the beginning of autumn which is already very cold. The leaves are withered, fall apace, and seem to intimate that I must follow them, which I shall do without reluctance, being extremely weary of this silly world. With a shrug of indifference, the prince of vanity fair turned away. And yet, for all that, Machiavelli and Chesterfield were great men, great minds. They were thoroughly integrated persons, and therefore remarkable personalities, and not the least element of their greatness was their freedom from camp. They were at least frank with themselves. They looked at life steadily and followed reason, the only star in their sky. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Schallabaga. And now to come to something quite different. Ogden Nash. Thank you. Thank you. Some 20 years ago, Ogden Nash published a volume of verse called Hard Lines. It came with a chain attached on the well-founded assumption that appreciative but unscrupulous readers might steal it from their friends' tables unless it were padlocked to the table leg. This latest volume, Parents Keep Out, elderly poems for youngerly readers, comes to us with no protective device. I've pondered on the significance of this. Could it be that Mr. Nash, flushed, as he says, by recent evidences that some of his verses have found favor among the young, has concluded that there is more honor among youngerly readers than among their parents? I think he's taking a chance. For personally, I find it impossible to detect any less wit or wisdom here than in the earlier volume. It's true that Mr. Nash's attitude toward the world has changed somewhat with the passing years. In 1931, for instance, he could say in a quite hard-boiled, Machiavellian, Chesterfieldian fashion, a man is very dishonorable to sell himself for anything other than quite a lot of pelt. Whereas in 1951, he is mellowed to a point where he can sympathize with a failing common to all men. The camel has a single hump, the dromedary two, or else the other way around. I'm never sure, are you? Of the greatest change, however, that has taken place, he has recently made public confession. He remembers how, as the father of a little girl, aged one, his blood ran cold when little boys went by in their prams. For little boys as little boys, no special hate I carry. But now and then, they grow to men, and when they do, they marry. But this fall, after 20 years of feminine society, even the Bedlington was a she, he unashamedly ate his words and offered that very daughter, now grown up and about to be married, his heartfelt thanks for bringing me, my angel child, a man to talk to once in a while. Today, I'm afraid Mr. Nash finds himself once more surrounded largely by the female sex. But the training of a lifetime will not desert him, I'm sure. Ladies, and there are some gentlemen here, Mr. Nash, I present you Ogden Nash. Thank you. Ms. Van Dorn, ladies and gentlemen, even if Mr. Schellebog hadn't recommended the virtues of briefness, I think perhaps I would have been led to it through the fact that last week I was speaking in a city some 900 miles west of here, and at the conclusion of what I thought was an extremely eloquent evening, the chairman got up to thank me, and he said, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure that we have all enjoyed listening to Ogden Nash speak and speak and speak and read verse after verse after verse. It is a great pleasure also to be on the platform with Mr. Justice Douglas, because in the course of my speaking tours I found myself out in his neck of the woods last winter. In fact, I was in Yakima, and further than that, I must tell you that I was presented by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of Yakima with a hand-painted yellow tie flaunting a bowl of fruit and the words Poet Laureate on it. And this because I turned out to have been the only versifier who was called Yakima Yakima and not Yakima. It was on the course of that trip that this particular book was born because I came across a good many booksellers who asked me if I would not make a collection for teenagers. Well, this hadn't occurred to me, and then I sat down to think about it, and I thought perhaps I would, that I would go through my work of the last 20 years and select those verses that I thought might give teenagers a glimpse of the world which they were shortly to enter. Because many of these verses would be familiar to older readers, I deliberately called the book Parents Keep Out. However, as I know that parents cannot be kept out of anything except their children's confidence, I, addressed the foreword to parents explaining what I was trying to do. With your permission, I should like to read a few of these verses which to my mind give some indication as to what the young boy or girl has in front of him. There is a verse called You and Me and P.B. Shelley. What is life? Life is stepping down a step or sitting on a chair and it isn't there. Life is not having been told that the man has just waxed the floor. It is pulling doors marked push and pushing doors marked pull and not noticing notices which say please use other door. It is when you diagnose a sore throat as an unprepared geography lesson and send your child weeping to school only to be returned an hour later covered with spots that are indubitably genuine. It is a concert with a trombone soloist filling in for Yehudi Menuhin. Were it not for frustration and humiliation I suppose the human race would get ideas above its station. Somebody once described Shelley as a beautiful and ineffective angel beating his luminous wings against the void in vain which is certainly describing with might and main but probably means that we are all brothers under our pelts and Shelley went around pulling doors marked push and pushing doors marked pull just like everybody else. applause This is a verse really to be presented to the young while that reverent light is still burning in their eyes. I always find it much better to get in first with the disparagement rather than to let it occur to them. Daughter dim those reverent eyes daddy must apologize. Daddy's not an engineer never will be now I fear. Daddy couldn't drive a train not for all the sherry in Spain. Daddy's not a fireman too. He couldn't do what firemen do. Clanging bells and screaming sirens are no part of his environs. In case of fire no hero he merely a humble rescuee. Also greatly to his grief daddy's not an Indian chief. Daddy cannot stealthy walk or wield a lethal tomahawk. Hark to daddy's secret grim. Feathers only tickle him. Better learn it now than later. Daddy's not an aviator. Daddy cannot soar and swoop neither can he loop the loop. Parachutes he never hung on to and what is worse he doesn't want to. As long as daddy's being defiant daddy child is not a giant. You'll travel far if you would seek a less remarkable physique. That's why he feels a decade older when you are riding on his shoulder. Another thing that daddy ain't I tell you frankly is a saint. Daddy my faithful catechumen is widely known as all too human. one final skeleton while I dare. Daddy's not a millionaire. Alas his most amusing verse is not a fortunator's purse. There child you have the dismal truth now obvious as a missing tooth. Your doom it is to be the daughter of one as romantic as soapy water. Should you like it you'd overwhelm me and if you hate it please don't tell me. applause This I think conveys a very valuable lesson to the up and coming generation. A verse called Tell it to the Eskimos. Ethelbert Jukes is full of health and he doesn't care who knows it. Others may exercise by stealth but he with a cry of prosa. Others put up with coated tongues and shoulders narrow and droopy. Ethelbert overinflates his lungs with a thundering shout of whoopee. Ethelbert's noise is healthy noise. Ethelbert's joys are healthy joys. Ethelbert shuns the primrose path and starts the day with an icy bath. I might forgive the super physique contained in the juke's apparel, the apple glowing in either cheek, the chest like an oyster barrel, the muscles that flow like a mountain stream, the result of applied eugenics, the rigorous diet, the stern regime of arduous calisthenics. I can pardon most of the healthy joys, I can pardon most of the healthy noise, but heaven itself no pardon hath for the man who boasts of an icy bath. If the missing links were vigorous chaps and their manly deeds were myriad, must civilization then relapse back to the glacial period? Humanity learns at a fearful price. Must the lessons all be lost? Does the locomotive feed on ice? Is the liner propelled by frost? One constant truth mankind has found through fire and flood and slaughter. The thing that makes the wheels go round is plenty of good hot water. And therefore, therefore, Ethelbert jukes, you deserve the harshest of harsh rebukes. You and your frigid daily bath are blocking civilization's path. And since cold water won't lava, Bertie, permit me to add that your neck is dirty. I'm afraid this next one is perhaps a little bit more from the parental point of view, if I can unstick it from itself. It is called Father, Dear Father, Go Jump in the Lake, or You Are Costlier Than You Think. Once there was a man named Mr. Arendt, and he was the severest of parents. Every time his seven children asked him when they could have a convertible, he answered by and by, and he confiscated all their phonograph records that had songs with people singing aye-yai-yai-yai-yai. He complained that they smoked too many cigarettes and he would neither feed nor bathe their pets. He insulted all their friends at 4 a.m. by standing at the head of the stairs in his pajamas and remarking ahem. He insisted that they put on their shoes before they ate, and he objected when they scooped the middle out of the rolls and deposited the crust on their plate. That was the erstwhile Mr. Arendts, the most unreasonable of parents. You ought to see the new Mr. Arendts. He is a veritable model of forbearance. He feels that whatever his seven children request, it behooves him to behave at their behest. Mr. Arendts has had a warning, wherefore he brings them seven apples and seven convertibles each morning. He is currying favor against the day when his voice begins to quaver. Any good will that his children may bear him, he wants to pat it. He wants them to remember him as a right guy when he had it. He knows that he is now an asset, but he fears that all too soon he will be an elderly liability in a chimney corner slurping porridge from a wooden spoon. Mr. Arendts has recently been told by an annuity salesman something that makes him feel so singular that he has shrunk to Mr. Arendt. Namely, it is harder for one parent to support seven children than for seven children to support one parent. And in conclusion, I should like to read a verse which I suppose was written for those young people who, like Mr. Douglas, feel the call of faraway places. In far Tibet, there live a llama. He got no papa, got no mama. He got no wife, he got no chillin', got no use for penicillin'. He got no soap, he got no opera. He don't know irium from copra. He got no songs, he got no banter, don't know Crosby, don't know canter. He got no teeth, he got no gums, don't eat no spam, don't need no tums. He loved to nick him when he shaved, he also got no hair to save, got no distinction, no clear head, don't call for Calvert, drink milk instead. He used no lotions for allurance, he got no car and no insurance. He lived just like the lower mammals, got no sore throat from not smoking camels, no Winchell warnings, no Pearson rumor, for this self-centered non-consumer. Indeed, the ignorant have not don't even know what he don't got. If you will mind the box tops, comma, I think I'll go and join that llama. Thank you. Shall we ask him to read to read us one more? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I don't like to keep you waiting. Be careful not to cross the gander, a bird composed of beak and dander. His heart is filled with prideful hate of all the world except his mate. And if the neighbors do not err, he's over fond of beating her. Is she happy? What's the use of trying to psychoanalyze a goose? When the Supreme Court closes for the summer, Justice Douglas usually turns to the outdoor world. As you know, he's a great mountain climber, hunter, and fisherman in his native northwest. But for two recent summers, 49 and 50, he combined his love of camping and riding with his desire to learn something firsthand of a fascinating awakening and to us little known part of the world, the Middle East. In 1949, accompanied by his son, he visited Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Persia, Transjordan, and Israel, all, in fact, of the Arab world except Saudi Arabia and Egypt. The next year, with an old friend from Yakima, Washington, he traveled in some of these countries again, more extensively this time, and then went on to India. All of these lands, you will realize, if you stop to think a moment, are just south of Soviet Russia. Russia, incidentally, would not permit Justice Douglas to enter her borders. But the Moscow radio was interested. It poured out excited accounts of his movements. He was called the big devil and charged with being a spy for the American army, with landing guns in the Persian Gulf, with planning guerrilla warfare in the Middle East. Justice Douglas, as you might expect, did not travel in any orthodox way. he got about on foot, by horseback or by jeep, talking with peasants, goat herds, and all he met along the way. He carried his equipment with him, and could put down his bedroll for the night, near or in some mountain village, where he often sat up late, talking and asking questions of the villagers or the local chief. To me, one of the most unexpected things he discovered was the almost universal prevalence of the radio. In a town, for instance, in northwest Persia, a town of 40,000 people, there were 10,000 radios, American battery radios. In every village there were radios. Even among the mountains, among the tribes, there were radios. The hours when news was broadcast were well known, and people gathered around to listen. Goat herds left their flocks, to join the groups. Justice Douglas, in fact, found that however remote he might be in the mountains, before night, he heard the news of the capitals of the world. These people couldn't read. Often even their chiefs couldn't, but they were well informed about what goes on in the world, and able to discuss their problems intelligently. It is for this reason that the conflict between Russian and Western propaganda becomes so vital. Justice Douglas has important things to say about the people of the Middle East, about their needs and hopes, about their attitude toward communism in relation to those needs and hopes. He lived among them, hunted and rode with them, ate their food, shared their poverty, and their hospitality. all of these experiences he sets forth vividly in strange lands and friendly people, a book that not only makes good reading, but illuminating reading. For against the background of his personal experiences, a wise and humane man shows us how and why Western democracy is losing out to Soviet propaganda in a restless and awakening area of the world. And that is something we desperately need to know today if we are to make the democratic idea triumphant in the battle against communism. I'm honored to be able to introduce to you Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, William O. Douglas. Mrs. Van Dorn and ladies and gentlemen, unlike perhaps the other speakers, I didn't plan this book with malice of forethought. I didn't plan to write a book. I was surprised that I did write this one and that I end up with it here this noon. Both were great pleasures. I wrote a book because when I went to Israel in 1949 to deliver some lectures at the University of Haifa, I heard and learned of things that were very disturbing. My trip to Israel was a trip just to see the country that so many of my friends had deep emotional investments in. I was practically converted to Zionism by my predecessor, Louis D. Brandeis. And Rabbi Wise had been a very close personal friend. And I heard from them and from others in my circles of the great and wondrous things going on in Israel. And so I decided I would accept the invitation to deliver the lectures at the University of Haifa. But before I went to Israel, I would see the back country to see the environment in which Israel lives. So I went to the back country first and saw Israel last. And by the time I'd reached Israel, I decided that I must come back another time if possible and write a book. Because I began to see that America thrust into a world situation very much internationally minded, at least since 1938, with heavy responsibilities of at least moral leadership was misunderstood, not understood at all in important respects, and that America was misunderstanding its problems in that part of the world. So back I went and the book is a product of it. I found out when I crossed the Himalayas this summer and got up into the Tibetan country that we don't understand Tibet. And it occurred to me this summer that the reason that we don't understand Tibet is because the Chinese have written the history of Tibet. And it depends upon what power has the machinery of propaganda. Who supplies the authors that fills our libraries? And the British have written the history of the Middle East, and it's a distorted, gross history, a history that does not represent, in my view, the aspirations of the people, the nature of their problems, and the quality of the spirit that lives there. I could talk about any one of these places at great length. I fell in love with them, all of them, in varying degrees. I became particularly close to the Persian situation because the late Prime Minister Rasmer was a close personal friend, friend, the man who was shot, and the present Prime Minister Mossadegh, another personal friend. I came to feel a very close spiritual affinity to the Persians because the Persians have a very close spiritual affinity to Americans. We're of the same stock. We get our ethnic and our cultural characteristics from the Persians. The Persians are very much like our New Englanders. They're very reserved. At the same time, they're very much like the people you'll find out in West Texas. They like tall tales. And they're rather boisterous. And they have a dry sense of humor. Wonderfully warm hearted, interesting people. The Persians have things in their culture that I found completely fascinating. For example, there was a bricklayer down at Isfahan in the central Persia who, as he was laying bricks at the start of this project of construction of a house, was reciting the Shah Namah, the Epic of the Kings, written many centuries ago by Ferdowsa that you know. He was starting with verse 1, chapter 1. It's a book that is at least as big as any of these here today. And he was reciting that, and he would finish with the last verse of the last chapter when he laid the last brick. He was an illiterate man, a man who, however, carried the poetry of Persia in his soul. And I would hear these porters in the bazaars and in the countryside in Persia talking, reciting as they went along. And I discovered that they too were reciting the Shah Namah. And I saw the women and men at the tomb of Hyphus in Shiraz praying with a book of Hyphus poetry. Very spiritual people, very ascetic people, people with a deep learning and a deep culture. They have a lot of interesting folklore. They have a 12th century character that's sort of a combination between Will Rogers and Irving Cobb and Mark Twain. Legendary, I think his name was Mueller. And Mueller would enjoy being here today because of all these women. Because it was through the women that Mueller made a tremendous fortune. He got a commission from the Shah of Persia to go about the country. countryside in all of Persia, which at that time extended way as far west as Athens, and to collect from each man one egg if he discovered that that man or could prove that that man was afraid of his wife. Well, Mueller in a few years became the wealthiest man in Persia. He had a monopoly on all the eggs. He converted eggs into castles, into pure-blooded Arabian horses, into harems, into estates and gardens and farms. Then he reported back to the Shah of Persia at the end of his pilgrimage. And the Shah said, Mueller, you are a very greedy person, a thoughtless person. You've made a tremendous fortune, I hear, with my commission, and yet you've brought me no present at all. And Mueller said, you're quite wrong, your majesty. I brought you the most beautiful present I could find. He said, what is it? He said, a very beautiful, voluptuous, Turkish girl. And Mueller, raising his voice to a shout, started to describe this voluptuous, beautiful, Turkish girl, and the Shah admonished him to be quiet, not talk so loud. And Mueller said, why? He said, because the queen is in the next room and will hear you. At that point, Mueller gets up, stretch out his hand, and says, now, your majesty, you too owe me an egg. I remember in Persia, the oil problem in Persia today seems perhaps a new problem. It's an old problem. The feeling in 1949 in the back country of Persia on oil was running very high. I remember a man who was about as far left as the president of the your biggest bank here in New York City. This man was the head of a tribe, a very wealthy man. And he was talking about oil in August night in 1949. And we were talking about the various difficulties of getting the oil out and the difficulty of displacing Britain in the oil picture. And he said, well, that's all true, what you say. But he said, Britain cannot have our oil. And I said, well, if Britain doesn't get it, Russia will. And he rose and he said, much as I hate the communists, I'd rather see Russia have our oil than Britain. That represents not a reasoned judgment. It represents an emotional judgment. But it is the emotional factor in Persia that is propelling events at a very fast speed today. And it is because those of us in this country and in England who make policy do not understand the nature of the forces that we are heading up to one of the greatest crises, I think, in modern history. Mossadegh represents the people of Persia. Mossadegh represents the villagers of Persia. He represents the goat herders. Mossadegh is not a rabble rouser. He's an aristocrat. Mossadegh, by our political standards, would be called a rather conservative man. Mossadegh believes that people, not everyone should be allowed to vote only those who are qualified voters. He wouldn't perhaps put on a poll tax, but he would require a test, a literacy test. Mossadegh is an aristocrat, a man of great learning, a wealthy man, and he represents in this great crisis in world history the Persian people. I know because I've been through practically all the villages of Persia. And when I heard Mossadegh the other night talking about the problems of Persia without interruption for an hour, this whole book came back through my mind. It was a very vivid, stirring experience to have. And he goes back from this country empty handed. He goes back to face one of the most critical periods, as I said, in modern history. And he goes back empty handed because the British are playing for disaster in Persia. The British are playing for disaster. Mr. Churchill is going to restore the prestige. You can put that word in quotes, in quotation marks. The British prestige in the Middle East. There's a great nationalism going on out there. A great revolution going on. Forces so powerful that no one can stop them. all you can possibly do is to try to inspire them into one direction or in another. And instead, we sit in this country trying to underwrite the status quo. And that cannot be done. The status quo is gone. We can write, help write with them a very exciting chapter in the new history of Asia. But we can't stop the forces that are going on. And I pray God that it is we who help them write that history rather than the Russians. Coming back to Mueller. There are a lot of stories. Some of these, Mr. Ogden Nash could greatly improve on. And popularize. There's been one Frenchman. He wrote a book on Mueller and his stories. Some of these stories you'd have to touch up a little bit and renovate. But there's one that represents what's going on in Persia today. One day, Mueller, who always seemed to end up with the slowest mule in Persia, was having difficulty getting the mule to go at a fast walk. So he pulled out some turpentine and poured on the mule. And pretty soon, the mule was going so fast that Mueller couldn't put in, couldn't keep up with the mule. So Mueller, being a very resourceful fellow, put some turpentine on himself. And pretty soon, he passed the mule. And they came into a village. And the villagers rushed out to stop the mule. And the mule said, don't stop the mule, stop me. Well, that's public opinion in Persia. That's Mueller with a turpentine. It's going so fast that no public leader can stop it. Erasmur tried and was assassinated. The mule said, don't know how to get assassinated. The opinion in all of these countries is moving fast for independence, for a self-respect and a self-esteem, for the recognition of equality among the nations of the world, and for the end, the final end of colonialism. I was, I'm going down from here to a duck shoot in Nashville, Tennessee, and I was making my reservations on a DC-6. And I discovered that I can fly down in three hours. And I remembered how Andrew Jackson would take 30 days in a horse and buggy to make that trip to Nashville. Nashville. We can find out what is going on between here and Nashville by reading the press and listening to the radio. But I don't suppose we could ever understand as well as Andrew Jackson understood what's going on between here and Nashville unless we traveled the country, unless we stopped in the inns and talked to the people and found out what was going on in their hearts. We can read and understand what we read, but we can't understand problems without some basis of experience with those problems. And that is why I rather desperately wrote this book, hoping that it might help Americans understand this problem. The most important problem in the world, the problem of the directing the revolutions that Wendell Wilkie saw that very few Americans have seen, the revolutions that are sweeping the earth and that no atomic bomb can stop. I remember a conversation in India with a little villager. He said, America, America, your great and powerful country is looking all around the world for bases, military bases, bases on our land, arsenals here, airports here and there, bases in our territory. Why doesn't America look for its bases in our hearts? And that is the theme of the book. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I hope you all have very happy holidays and that we'll see you again in January. Thank you. Thank you. You've been listening to the book and author luncheon, which was held at the Hotel Astor earlier this afternoon. Mrs. Irita Van Doren, literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune, was chairman at this luncheon, at which Samuel Schellabarger, Ogden Nash, and finally Justice William O. Douglas, each an author of a recently published book, Spoke. This program was brought to you as a transcribed feature of your city station. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.