The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. How will the North Atlantic Pact affect us? The North Atlantic Pact will be a long step toward the establishment of peace and security in our time. The North Atlantic Pact is as certain a step to World War III as Lent-Lease proved to be a long step towards World War II. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. A program in its 15th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how will the North Atlantic Pact affect us? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around provisions of this important pact, now being discussed in Congress, and the effect it will have on this nation. At the end of the program, we'll tell you how to get a copy of today's discussion, complete with a list of books and articles about the pact and our foreign policy. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. All this week, Congress has been wrestling with the problem of approval or refusal of the North Atlantic Pact. Some congressmen say the pact is a vital foundation to our foreign policy and a great step toward peace. Others claim that the agreement might merely arm Europe and lead to another war. To discuss this problem of the pact and our foreign relations, the reviewing stand today welcomes Hollis W. Barber, associate professor of political science at the University of Illinois in the Chicago Division, who has just returned from a conference on the Atlantic Pact here in Illinois. And Paul A. Shilp, associate professor of philosophy at Northwestern University, who had a chance to observe Europe first-hand recently as both a teacher in Germany and as a delegate to the Second World Congress on World Government in Luxembourg. Now, Mr. Barber, you seem to think that this pact is a step toward peace. Why do you think that it might lead us in that direction? I think it's going to be a step toward peace for the reason that was stated, for example, in this Vandenberg resolution of a year and a half or so ago and in the treaty itself. The idea is that if any possible aggressor knows in advance that he's going to be met with overwhelming force, I just don't think he's going to do any aggressing. Mr. Shilp, you've already pointed out that you would disagree here. Why do you think this pact is going to lead us toward another war? Because in the first place, it is a defensive alliance. In the second place, it continues the balance of power idea. In the third place, it is in formation of a block against another block. In the fourth place, it will create the worst armaments race in history. In the fifth place, it bypasses the United Nations and therefore assures our lack of confidence in the United Nations. In the sixth place, it interferes with the constructive work of the European Recovery Program. And in the seventh place, Congress, by it, abdicates its constitutional rights to declare war. For all these seven reasons, it seems to me the North Atlantic Pact leads to war and not to peace. Well, the positions are now clear, but I am not clear at all on the possibilities, the proposition of who started this pact. Where was its origination? What was its original purpose, Mr. Barber? Well, that's kind of a hen and egg proposition. I don't know exactly where the thing did start, or I don't think you can say that it started with any one individual. Of course, one of the bases for it was the inter-American system, the Rio Pact particularly of a year or two ago, the idea that the Americas would stand together against aggression. Another thing was this Brussels Pact of early 1948, in which the Benelux countries in Britain and France agreed that they would unite to resist aggression. Those are some of the basic things, I think, that we're in the thinking of the people who drafted the pact. I don't think any one person drafted the pact as it stands. It was a joint proposition. It was hammered out in a lot of long negotiations. We proposed some things at first, some of the other countries were not willing to accept them. They proposed some things, we couldn't accept those. As for example, the commitment as to whether we should automatically go to war or not. That's one of Schelp's points. I think it's important to remember that. That one of the original drafts of the pact called for automatic aid to those who were the victims of aggression. We weren't willing to accept that. We put an escape valve or an escape clause in the treaty, in these words that we'll take such action as we deem necessary. It's not an automatic commitment in that sense. It's not automatic in the way that some people wanted it at first. It says such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area. In other words, such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, makes it pretty clear that when the pact is finally officially ratified, the individual signers and signatories of the pact will be forced to take armed force if that is the situation which seems to be called for. Yes, that is, if that is the situation that we think is called for. It's still not an automatic commitment. I think that's pretty definite. As we may take military action, we might take economic action, there are all sorts of things that could be done. But I don't think that we're committed absolutely to an automatic declaration of war the minute somebody marches into Luxembourg, let's say, or some other country. The simple fact of the case, however, is that all the argument in Congress all this past week has been precisely over that issue. And no matter how much Senator Dulles and Senator Connolly and some of the others who have been leading the fight for the pact have been trying to assure men like Senator Taft and others that it did not mean an automatic commitment, that the reading of the words, the reading of the wording, which indicates, for example, in Article 3, by means of continuous and effective self-help and mutual aid, will maintain and develop their individual and collective capacity to resist armed attack. And by very virtue of the fact that it is intended immediately to bring in the appropriation in order to arm these European countries so that they will be ready to resist attack indicates that this escape clause is not really an escape clause. Well, it may still be. Of course, in part, that's simply a legal argument. I think that a great deal of the time that's been spent in arguing this thing legally is simply shadow boxing, not much more. That is, whether there is a legal commitment or a moral commitment. I don't think you can say there's a moral commitment among nations because a legal commitment or a legal obligation implies, at least in domestic law, something that can be enforced by a court, with a sheriff and a bailiff and all that sort of thing. You don't have that between nations. Another thing as far as that business of going to war is concerned is this question that's been debated as you know, Shilp, any number of times, I don't know how many hours, as to whether or not Congress abdicates its power to declare war if we sign and ratify and go into this treaty. The thing that I have in mind there is simply this. Whether there's any Atlantic Pact or not, let's assume for a moment there isn't any Atlantic Pact. If you've never heard of it, there's still a very good possibility that the President, Pact or no Pact, might take military action when he, on the basis of advice available to him and his judgment, thought that it was in the interest of American security to take it. As what I'm getting at is this, Congress has the power to declare war under the Constitution, of course. Also under the Constitution, the President is Commander-in-Chief of the Army and Navy. And I emphasize that Commander-in-Chief. That means he's the one who gives the orders. That doesn't make a difference whether it's war or peace. There have been, oh, I don't know how many times, I've seen a list of them, it seems to be a hundred times or so in the course of the last hundred and fifty, sixty years, when the President has ordered troops to land on foreign territory. Is that what you mean when you say the President could take military action? That's right. Whether there's any Pact or not. I don't think that the Pact has much to do with that part of it. The Pact reinforces an idea, maybe, but it doesn't start a new thing. Well, I'm perfectly willing to grant you this last point. I do not think it changes anything on the fundamental proposition. Before I go on, Mr. Buchanan, I think it is important to state clearly that I'm not an isolationist. But neither am I a warmonger. I do not believe in the slogan, Is this a private fight or may anybody butt in? That seems to have been the attitude too many times in the past and have led from initial war to world wars. And the simple fact of the case is that if history has proved anything at all, and I realize, of course, that history probably proves only that men learn no lessons from history, it would seem to prove that the greatest fraud ever perpetrated on the human race was the old Roman proverb, if you want peace, prepare for war. Every nation which prepared for war, all down through the centuries, got what it prepared for, namely war, not peace. Yet we have learned no lesson from this obvious fact of history. But keep right on preparing for war and selling to our people the tremendous costs of war preparation under the same old worn out and a hundred times disproved slogans and pretexts that it is all done in the interest of preserving peace. The old saying that you can fool all of the people some of the time, and some of the people all of the time, needs today to be revised to read, you can fool most of the people most of the time. Well now Buchanan, let me say something in there. Shope defends himself against what he takes as an implied attack, that he's an isolationist, and I'm glad to have him get on the record the fact that he's not. Neither am I. We're both internationalists, though we think we have different ways. Each of us thinks he has the better way of solving a problem. Neither of us is an isolationist, let's assume that. Now you say there was an implied criticism that you're an isolationist, that's clear. I think you imply a criticism that I'm a warmonger, and I want to get that clear. Not necessarily. Well, I think there's as much implication one way as the other, and I simply want to get it in my own record, I'm no warmonger, I don't know exactly what a warmonger is, but I'm pretty sure I'm not it. I don't want a war any more than you do. The whole point, as far as I'm concerned, of this Atlantic Pact, is that by the pact, and more particularly by the implementation of it, which is the thing that I think we ought to pay some attention to before we get through, the implementation is really the important thing about it. I think it is a security pact, I think it is a defense pact, I think it is a thing which has a pretty good chance of preserving the peace. I'm not guaranteeing it, there's no gold bond guarantee to a thing like this, but I think there's a very good chance that it is going to preserve the peace. Now this thing you talk about of the kind of historical evidence, or the historical inevitability that since things have gone one way in the past, they're necessarily going that way in the future. I want to take exception to that. I'm not prepared to admit that we men and women are simply cogs in a machine, that there's something absolutely mechanical about this history. It's a question of are we mice or are we men? Remember that Groucho Marx answered that once by saying put a piece of cheese down there and see. Well it isn't that simple either. I'm not prepared to admit that we're simply caught in a machine. The fact that alliances have led to war frequently in past is perfectly true. I don't deny that. I am prepared to deny though that that's necessarily the case in the future. The important thing is, seems to me, the spirit in which we carry this thing out. The way we go about working it. Well I want to be specific here in talking about the pact, now that we've set some of the background. Mr. Schoep, you say that it is a defensive pact, and therefore not in your approval. While Mr. Barber seems to think that the defensive pact is just what we need. What do you have against a defensive pact, Mr. Schoep? It is, Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Barber, a defensive alliance. There are just two things wrong with that phrase. One is the first word, defensive, and the other is the second word, alliance. No modern nation has ever admitted fighting in or preparing for an offensive war. Which means that everyone claims to be preparing for war in mere and sheer self-defense. Hitler claimed to have fought in self-defense, or at least sold this idea to the German people. And on the second word, every modern alliance has been erected in the name of self-defense, the Triple Entente, the Triple Alliance before World War I. The Rome, Berlin, Tokyo axis, the allies. And by the way, on this very last thing, it seems to me, perhaps we'd get rid of all alliances once and for all, except the alliance of all the nations of the world to preserve peace, if we put one more hell into this word, allies, and called it all lies. Well, now, I'm prepared to argue that defensive alliance proposition. I think it is defensive. And here's the thing I have in mind. I think that, well, let me put it this way. You referred to Hitler a minute ago. Had he fought defensively? Well, of course, you're perfectly correct. Nobody admits, at least I don't know of any case where he admits that he's an aggressor. Hitler did this sort of thing, as you very well remember, I know. He'd make some demands, he'd march some troops up to a border, he'd say, I want so-and-so. If you don't give it to me, if you take action against me, then you are the aggressor. You started the war. He was shifting the burden there. I think you're doing a good deal of the same thing here. Mr. Robert, that is... Well, just let me finish, may I please? Here's the thing. Who's doing the defending and who's doing the aggressing here? It seems to me it's pretty clear since 1945 that it's the Soviet Union which has maintained its armed forces at wartime strength, or pretty nearly that at any rate. I guess they've let out some of the young kids and the old men from the army, but they have anywhere from three to five million men under arms. We have demobilized, the Western countries pretty generally have, and certainly we did in the United States. There was that military or armaments angle of it, which I think is in part an aggressive proposition, or at least an evidence of aggressive intention. There's the fact that Stalin or the Russians in general in the last three or four years have taken over, as you very well know, Poland, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, and all the rest of it. We haven't done any of that taking over. I think that we are defending ourselves against some aggression that has already started. I am not at all taking issue with your facts on Russia. Let's be perfectly clear on that. But I'm simply saying that we are, by creating this North Atlantic Pact, giving Russia a chance to do out in the open what at least up until now she has had to do more or less undercover and surreptitiously. In other words, the block she has created has been created surreptitiously by working from within a country and have the country come out and affiliate itself with the Russian situation. From now on, when we have made this open block against her and her allies, Russia will be able to do exactly the same thing. It's the old story, to use your own phraseology of a little while ago, of the hen and the egg which came first. Well, I think we can find a hen and an egg in that case. I think the hen, as far as the aggression is concerned, is perfectly clearly Russian taking over. And I don't see why it was surreptitiously. I don't see anything surreptitious about taking over Czechoslovakia or some of that thing. I think that's perfectly open and above board. Everybody knew what was going on. Nothing surreptitious about that that I can see. I do think that the hen in that case was very clearly Russian aggression. I think the egg is, or at least was in the first place, a hope that the United Nations, operating under chapters 6 and 7 of the charter, that is usual, peacemaking machinery, the hope that those would be able to preserve peace. Well, now that hasn't panned out. Of course, when you're doing that, you see, you're forgetting your own analogy. Because when you say one is the hen and the other is the egg, you realize that we wouldn't have had a hen unless there had been an egg first, which is precisely the old question as to which did come first, which as far as I know has never been answered. So consequently, the analogy doesn't hold. I think the answer is perfectly clear and simple. When you ask the question, how will the pact affect us? It will involve the United States in the greatest and most intense armaments race in the world's history. We're already arming ourselves to the teeth, to the tunes of billions of dollars annually, even without the pact. Now we are to add $1 billion, $130 million for the first year only, in terms of what the implementation of this North Atlantic pact requires. And only yesterday, the announcement of the expensive research and work on the secret weapon under the water, which came over the air, in connection with submarines, indicates in which direction we are going. But under this pact, all of this is not enough. We are engaging under it to arm more than a dozen other nations besides. I think that's a vital point there that has come up, especially in the news. Are we to arm Europe, as some critics claim, Mr. Barber? Do you think that doesn't enter the argument? Well, we're clearly, I think, committed to arming Europe. That is, the text of the pact indicates that as a logical consequence. And the State Department hasn't tried to hide that at all. That's gone before Congress publicly and officially. But what do we mean when we say we will arm Europe? Just what does that consist of? Well, that means apparently a good many different things. It means, for one thing, of course, training of some of their military men. It means transferring to them some military equipment. And that in the first instance, I mean. Some of our surplus stocks, that will be a large part of it to begin with. In future, I don't know that anybody can say with any degree of accuracy what it's going to mean, I presume it would mean a continuation of that sort of thing for maybe the next, oh, three or four, maybe five years. I don't see that a person can answer that exactly. Do you think that is justified, then? I do. I think it's justified. Well, the pact says it's justified not for three or four or five years, but for 20 years. Well, yes, that's right. It's a 20-year pact. That doesn't mean necessarily, though, that all of the activities under it are going to continue for 20 years. This thing, as I see it, is a stopgap proposition. We've tried, we've hoped that the UN would be able to settle some of these difficulties. That hasn't panned out. Part of that is because, of course, of the Russian veto on the Security Council and the attitude they've taken. This is more in point at the moment, the attitude they've taken in this military staff committee, which is the one that's supposed to set up some regulation of armaments, some provision for something you could call roughly an international police force or whatever you want to call it. That hasn't panned out. So, failing that, and I think we tried that in good faith, that hasn't worked. So, we're trying another attack on it. I don't think we're going outside of the UN exactly. We're bolstering up a place where the UN has shown itself, unfortunately, and I'm very sorry, to be weak. Well, that is exactly the point, and I'm glad to have at least your admission, that the Atlantic Pact indicates that we believe that at this particular point the UN has failed, which it seems to me shows that the government at this point has no faith, no confidence, no trust that the UN will implement its decisions. Now, on this whole question of bypassing the United Nations with other alliances, I should like, instead of quoting just our own ideas, I should like to quote the Secretary General of the United Nations. As long ago as on February 11th, he stated, quotes, if people generally began to accept alliance as a substitute for genuine worldwide collective security, then the hope of lasting peace would be gravely endangered. Now, it seems to me that makes the point precisely. It makes it pretty close to the point that I was making a while ago, I think. I don't think we have basically much to argue right there. I said a while ago that I thought the important thing about this was not the pact itself, but the spirit in which it's carried out, the implementation of it, or whatever you want to call it. Now, if this is a pact, or if it turns out to be a pact, which leads somebody to another pact, and a series of them, so that the UN is completely forgotten about, then the jig is up. I think you're quite correct there. There is another thing, though, in what you say. This isn't, I think, a matter completely of admitting that the UN has failed. It relates, for one thing, only to one part of the UN. Let's not forget the trusteeship council, the Economic and Social Council, and some of those other things that are very important factors in the UN. There are parts of the UN that have worked so far pretty well, and I think give very good promise of working in the future. I look at, just let me say one thing more. I look at this pact a good deal in the same way that you look at a spare tire that you can't do. You look at a spare tire that you carry in your car. It doesn't weaken your car that you've carried a spare tire there. You know that you may have a puncture sometime. When you do that, you're going to get the thing, get your spare tire out and use it, and ultimately replace it, maybe, with your better tire. I think that's about what we're doing here. We haven't gotten what we hoped we might get out of the military staff committee, out of the security arrangements of the council. Mr. Barbour, you see, your illustration, your analogy, is awfully weak. I have never yet seen a spare tire jumping out of a car and starting to make trouble. It is pulled out when you need it, and it is not the sort of thing that creates punctures. Whereas military alliances have created one puncture after the other in the history. Give me a chance this time, Mr. Buchanan. The proposition of assuming that you can compare the North Atlantic Pact to a spare tire is the notion that a spare tire is a passive thing, which doesn't create any friction in terms of itself. Everyone knows that this thing is creating friction because it is calling forth the formation of blocks. I have already admitted that there was a block being formed super-reptitiously on the other side. Now it will just give them a chance to form that block all the more ostensibly and openly. Well, a block is being formed, all right. Blocks have been formed before. That has nothing necessarily to do with this business. There's a Russian block, for that matter, showing up in the General Assembly time and again in days gone by. Look at the votes in the Assembly, 45 to 6, 42 to 6, that sort of thing. Those 6 are always the same block as the Soviet and its satellites. There have been Latin American blocks, Arab blocks, and so on. Those weren't started by the Atlantic Pact. They weren't started by the UN. They go back a long way beyond that. Whether a spare tire is a passive thing or not, I don't know whether that's worth paying a great deal of attention to. What I do think is this, as I say, that we've tried some machinery and it didn't work out as well as we hoped it would. Now we're going to try another one, but we're not saying that we're casting aside the first one altogether. We're saying we're going to use this as a temporary crutch to help us out of a jam that we've gotten into. Well, when you speak of machinery, Mr. Schilt brings up the point that the Pact might interfere with machinery already in motion, namely the European Recovery Program. I'd like to know more about your opinion there, Mr. Schilt. Yes, the North Atlantic Pact, it seems to me, will interfere with the constructive work which the European Recovery Program is doing on the economic side. It seems to me it cannot help but do so because it will divert men, money, and strategic materials, which would be necessary for the European recovery to military purposes. By that very process, defeating the very program of helping Europe to get on its own feet and be able to take care of itself, even in the case of an attack. Because obviously countries which are economically bankrupt or on the verge of bankruptcy are of no particular significance in point of war. That's perfectly right. A bankrupt country is no good militarily because your military power depends basically on economic power. We won't argue that point. We agree there, I'm sure. In answer to this point you make, I think there are two things to be said. In the first place, that it's been perfectly clearly announced, and so far as I know perfectly honestly, sincerely announced by the Secretary of State and others in our country, that any military assistance to be given under this pact is going to be subordinated to the Marshall Plan, which of course is primarily for economic rather than military reconstruction. I think there's that to be said, that economic reconstruction comes first. Military reconstruction is the second thing. And there's a second thing in, a second answer I think to this objection you're saying, you're making, that it will impede recovery. One major purpose of the pact, not only is the idea of acting as a deterrent to possible aggression, by which of course we mean practically Russian aggression. There's also this other thing, that it's intended to be a shot in the arm to European morale, to people in Europe to be able to say, we are safe, we can invest our money, we can build our factories, we can go back to work again, which they're very unlikely to do right now. It's a strange thing to me, to hear someone say it's a shot in the arm to European or any other kind of morale, when you start building up military alliances and defenses, looking towards another world war. The surest way to wreck the economy of any country, is to increase the military appropriations out of all proportions to the rest of the needs of the life of the country. After all, we've got again, the whole history of humanity and all the nations in the past to prove that point. And the present time, when we know that just about 80 cents of the federal dollar, is being expended in this country, for wars past, present and future. We are trying to impose more or less the same sort of thing upon 11 European countries, and wreck the entire economic program of all the nations concerned. I don't think we're imposing anything on the European countries. I would object violently to that word. I think this is a thing which the European countries want. That is, those that have come in under the pact. I don't think we're imposing anything on them at all. Now, as far as this other business is concerned, the amount of money that's spent for war, I deplore that just as much as you do. I don't like the idea of paying taxes and thinking 80 cents out of every dollar is going for war. I don't like that worth a nickel. On the other hand, I don't see what we can do about it as of the present situation. We can't rebuild the whole house. We've got to do some alterations in what we have. We could build a world government and give to that world government the necessary military force on the basis of an all-world proposition which would not be a balance of power and therefore would not create the very situation which this present Atlantic pact creates. Well, now you talk about a world government. I'm all for you on that. As far as I'm concerned though, that's probably about the best idea of the 21st century. We aren't ready for it yet. Thank you, gentlemen. I think that's been an interesting discussion and I believe that more discussions such as this might help us along our path toward peace. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Will the North Atlantic Pact Affect Us? The North Atlantic Pact is subject for conversation pro and con everywhere these days. If you'd like to be informed on this subject, if you'd like to know more about our foreign policy, we have a suggestion. You can get an exact copy of today's discussion and an extensive list of books and articles about foreign affairs for just 10 cents in coin. Write the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Or to make sure you keep up with our future discussions, discussions about our Congress, American literature, slum clearance, you can subscribe to the weekly transcripts. One dollar for four months, two dollars and a half for the entire year. The address again, the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Right now, you'll have your first copy in just one week. Our guests today were Hollis W. Barber, Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Illinois, and Paul A. Schilt, Associate Professor of Philosophy at Northwestern University. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand travels to Washington, where it will ask two senators, should we worry about increased cost of government? Our participants will be Senator Kenneth S. Wherry, Republican of Nebraska, who was a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and Republican floor leader, and Francis J. Myers, Democratic Senator from Pennsylvania and Democratic Quip of the Upper House. We invite you to listen next week for, should we worry about the increased cost of government? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. with update 10,000 and"... ... ... ... This will be great to hear from you. It will happen soon.