Okay, thank you, Don. The Brady calling the Sullivan, the Brady calling the Sullivan. Come in, Jim. Up, three. Over. Do you want the Sullivan to keep the party forward and go to the unit, and you want the Lance to go also? No, the Lance is stopping. They shift the ship. The Lance stops. The Lance is stopping. O' Navajo. Immediate operation definitely went by. Sons of the in in in 0 2 5 G It feels like home. It feels like a manoeuvre by being granted liberty in the arts. For many of these men, this crew was their first real cure of duty on a fighting chest. They worked hard and learned fast. For many, it was the final crew. To those we wish, as the figure says, fair winds and the safe heart. I am proud of all the mission boards and all those who are leaving us. All gave their best on the operation just completed. All were proud of their ships, proud of the record achieved. Admiral Mitchell, I'd like to ask you just one question. And that is, what was the purpose of those manoeuvres? I understand they were largely to accustom new men to naval operations. Is that correct, Admiral? Yes, you know just as the athlete must keep and trim by counseling rest, so the Navy helps guard the peace by its maintenance of an alert and able organization. Thank you very kindly, Admiral Mitchell. We have been fortunate in having you with us today, ladies and gentlemen, on the flagged red of the Franklin D. Road Belt, a man who typifies the spirit of the Navy. A quiet, unassuming, unpretentious, yet surely a vicious person. And that man is Admiral Martin Mitchell. And now standing beside us, he has another great figure, a young man. He has Commodore A. A. Burk. Commodore Ernie A. Burk, a man who is better known to all of us as 31 knots Burk. The man who struck fear into the heart of the Japanese by standing into their home territory in his great destroyer squadron. And making certain that the Japanese never were in a position to strike us a full blow. Admiral Burk, I'd like to ask you a few questions, sir. And one of those is this. What did you think of the maneuvers and the men who participated in them on this crew? The maneuvers were very good. The men were wonderful. Those youngsters of ours are excellent. Give them a job to do, and they work hard. They really are doing their very best, and that's just plenty good. Thank you very much, Commodore Burk. I'd like to ask you one or two more questions, sir. And among them, it's this. How much liberty? Of course, I don't know how much liberty is that, of course. That is correct. We don't know exactly how much liberty the men could get either, but whatever it is, they will get the maximum amount that we can possibly get for them. The difficulties which we understand you have been experiencing lately may have some effect on the lead of some of the men. Well, thank you very much, Commodore Burk. We've been very happy to have you here with us today. And now, I'd like to introduce to us, to the audience, Mr. I should say, Commander B.M. Stream, Commander of Air Group 75. Commander Stream, what do you think of your current casual status, this Air Group, compared to other casuals that you've worked with? I know most of them are young pilots. And, uh, that's what we're doing. Certainly, they have rich distribution of the wisdom that has gone forward out to these pilots who want to support them both a lot. And because of the radiation, uh, was developed, so that they could be the very best pilots. What do you think of these pilots on the announcement? Uh, I believe our pilots now are as good as we have in the war. Our pilots are fairly enthusiastic, and, uh, like this in the great field, and, consequently, are very good. Uh, sir, I'd, uh, like to ask you another question. Uh, uh, what do you think of your own crewmen? That is the manual man, the rare seat. Now, these crewmen, I know a courageous group of men, and they have a certain feeling for what they call their jockies. They are enlisted men of the, uh, of Naval Aviation, and they did a great job during the war, and I think they're doing a great job in these two. Now, could you tell us just a little about, uh, what your opinion tells of your rare seat managers? They're in the war, and they're still with us in peace time. And, uh, well, I'd like to introduce the man, who is the gunnery officer of this great ship, the Rosevelt. Commander, he tells the question of the commander's commander. Will you tell us a little bit about the, uh, armament and gunnery of the assignment, the Rosevelt, in contrast to the CV type of carrier? The CV class, uh, the CV class, we can, uh, air capacity, and hold a lot more barrels of anti-aircraft batteries than the CV class. This is also, we can put up a lot more firepower in all directions. In addition to having, uh, more barrels, we've got more control gear, which complicates the core, and makes it tougher on the enemy. Uh, Admiral Mitchell suggested the other day, in our press conference, that, uh, in the future, there would be a type of, uh, gun which would inevitably replace the speed of the airplane. Of course, you saw that in the future, but you believe that the ship lines would be developed. Now, it's interesting to note that, uh, the Navy has always kept pace with all technological developments. And, uh, I would like to know just what your opinion is. In other words, it seems to me that there would be some, something developed that would be just a little, a little quicker, a little more speedy than, uh, the aircraft. What do you think of that, sir? Well, I have no doubt that something of that, uh, order is in progress and is being developed. As to the details of what they are developing, I am not, uh, acquainted at all. But I presume that they will develop projectiles and guns to handle them. Projectiles say that it will also, in addition to have the, having the, uh, original powder propulsion, will be assisted by a jet or other, some other form of energy at the same time. Projectiles say that it Well, thank you very much, Commander Ryder. And I certainly appreciate your coming up here to the microphone. And now we want to bring one of the rear seat men to our microphone. He is Mr. J.P. Dinsmore, who is an aviation radio man, second class, and who is from Tacoma, Washington. Uh, Mr. Dinsmore, is this your first visit to New York, sir? Uh, no, I've, uh, been in New York about two at the time. About two other times. The, uh, other times when we were up here for commissioning in October, and the one just before we went out on this cruise. Mr. Dinsmore, I imagine that you are happy to get back to New York, especially after these maneuvers. I'm sure that New York, as we in the fleet used to know it, I used to be in the fleet, uh, is a good Liberty Town. What do you think, sir? Uh, yes, New York as Liberty Town is very good. I like it very well. Well, thank you very much, J.P. Dinsmore, aviation radio man, second class of Tacoma, Washington. And, uh, now we have with us the man who is the traffic officer of the carrier, Franklin D. Roosevelt, a man who directs traffic, that is, he directs the landing of planes. And, uh, if you know what a hard job it is for a traffic patrolman to get out in front of 5th Avenue in a great deal of traffic, those are only automobiles. Just consider the man who gets out in front of these dive bombers, these torpedo planes, these fighter planes, and steers them in. It takes a great deal of courage, a great deal of fortitude, a great deal of stamina, and above all, it takes a great deal of patience. And now, I'd like to introduce to you Lieutenant W. Day Gregg, the landing signal officer of the Franklin D. Roosevelt. Lieutenant Gregg, uh, just what does it take to be a traffic officer, so to speak, of a great carrier such as this one? I guess the first, uh, call of the season would be, uh, actually experience in flying aboard yourself. I had the privilege of, uh, operating, uh, aboard the old Wasp with, uh, Commander Dave McCammell. He was our signal officer then, and, uh, I consider that my, uh, the greatestleşe thing toward putting a good signal officer is if he, uh, has experience before he starts in at this job. Uh, sir, were you referring to, uh, Mr. McCammell, the Congressional Medal of Honor winner? um, Honor winner? Thank you.
