Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents, by special transcription, the Reviewing Stand. In three weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, how should Christians look at war? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around Christian values and Christian attitudes toward war. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Father Edward V. Cardinal, Director of the Shield School of Social Studies in Chicago, and Assistant at Our Lady of Peace Parish in Chicago. The Reverend G. Eugene Durham, Director of the Methodist Student Foundation at Northwestern University, and Professor J. M. O'Neill, Chairman of the Department of Speech at Brooklyn College in New York. Now, as you gentlemen know, we're discussing the question, how should Christians look at war? How do you answer that question, Durham? I believe that Christians should oppose war because it is evil. War counts upon the outpouring of passion and hatred. While a Christian stands against evil, it is with a method of love. War is a use of force in personal relationship, which makes it impossible to have goodwill relationships toward the personality of your enemy. In the first place, you're trying to kill him and thus put him out of all relationship with yourself. Second place, modern killing is wholesale and often impersonal. In the third place, war also poisons personal relations at their roots, namely through lying and trickery and subterfuge. And if Christ, who is certainly the norm in the Christian's life, be in any valid sense the way and the truth, then certain other ways of living and acting are not the way. And it would seem to me that war definitely contradicts Christ's way. The mission of the Christian church on earth is to spread the spirit of Christ, a chief element of which is self-giving love, so that men will love God with all their hearts, soul, mind, and strength, and will love their fellow man. The Christian church has a responsibility to bear witness to the way men ought to live. The Christian is committed to the fact that of all the methods of dealing with sin, the way of meeting evil with good works better than any other. The weapon God uses against evil is the weapon of reconciliation, of a love that led to a cross. Now, you're saying, then, Durham, that war is an evil thing from a Christian point of view, and that Christians should oppose it. Is that right? That's right. I certainly am. Do you go along with that, O'Neill? Not entirely, no. I believe that most of the things that he says are the proper objectives of Christianity are true. However, I don't think that there is any general principle that's consistent with Christianity that you can apply universally and say all wars are good or all wars are bad. I think every war has to be looked at according to its own circumstances. And I think that just as the individual is justified in using force to defend himself and his wife and children, so the nation is justified in using force to defend itself against the aggressor. You can't use love and goodwill on the enemy after he has killed you and your family. You've got to survive in order to have a chance to use the weapons of Christianity. And you have a right to try to survive against those who would destroy you and your way of life. Now, before Durham replies, let's have Father Cardinal's view on this. Well, Mr. Durham mentioned the Bible in his defense of his position. I find it extremely difficult to get any clear-cut statement on this thing when we look at the Bible as a source because the Bible says that our Lord came not to bring peace but the sword. And he told his apostles at the end, if need be, to sell their cloaks to buy swords. Peter and Paul, St. Peter and St. Paul, both commend the lawful authority of the magistrate in a way which suggests that they did not understand our Lord to condemn all use of the sword. And then when we look at the early centuries of Christianity, a number of soldiers were received into the church, and their relatives were not ashamed to know that on their epitaphs. And then we had St. Athanasius, who said it was forbidden to kill. Nevertheless, in war, it is lawful and praiseworthy to kill the won enemies. Further, great rewards are decreed to those who were distinguished in war. Now, this statement, If I have spoken evil, give testimony to evil, is, well, why strikest thou me? If we look only at the words, Mr. Durham, he did not in this obey his own precept. For he did not turn another part of his face to anyone who had struck him. But on the contrary, prevented him, who had done the wrong, from adding thereto. So I would say that it's extremely difficult from the Bible to get a clear-cut statement such as you made with reference to this whole problem. Well, Father Cardinal, what you point out is interesting, all right, and I am interested in what St. Athanasius says. But I go back to Jesus and some of the other sayings of his and the whole spirit of Jesus. Turn to the Sermon on the Mount, and you find him saying, You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. And then he goes on, and you remember, in that last of that chapter, to say, You therefore must be perfect in love, as your heavenly Father is perfect. In another place, Jesus is saying, Be merciful, as your Father is merciful. And it seems to me that the spirit of the Master is the thing that we are to follow when he says, Follow me. And I can't imagine Jesus using a bayonet or dropping a bomb. Well, here you have, quote, given texts, and I have given texts. The result is that it's very, very difficult to get a clear statement one way or the other. In other words, we don't have from the pen of Christ, because he did not write, nor do we have in the Gospels a specific statement of the thing. So we must have recourse to those whose function was to interpret the teachings of Christ. Well, let's turn to some of those interpretations, Father, in an attempt to find out what, in your opinion, would constitute a just war. Well, to me, of course, one of the greatest interpreters of the mind of Christ was St. Thomas Aquinas. And St. Thomas Aquinas lays down certain conditions, which he says would justify a war. One of these conditions is that this war shall be undertaken by the lawful authority, that it shall be undertaken for the vindication of an undoubted and proportionate right that has been certainly infringed, and that it shall be a last resort, all peaceful means of settlement having been tried in vain, and that the good to be achieved shall outweigh the evils that war will involve, and that there shall be a reasonable hope of victory for justice. Yes. These are the conditions which St. Thomas Aquinas lays down for the beginning of a just war, and I think in the application of the principles of Christ, churchmen, at least, Catholic theologians, have always based their teachings on St. Thomas Aquinas. But today, can you get good ends out of the means of war? The feeling is that you get nothing but destruction, you use lying, you use hatred, you use bitterness, you use falsehood, you use all other means that you and I would certainly not call Christian to fight a war. Well, Durham is saying in substance that war is a self-defeating thing, I think, O'Neill. What is your view on that? I disagree with it. I think that war is a thing to be avoided in every possible case, but the idea that no good can come of war, or that no good has come of war, I do not accept. I think in this country we have had eminently justifiable wars, for instance, the Revolutionary War, and I think the fruit of it has been of great good, even to England who was defeated in it. I think both England and America have profited from the Revolutionary War, and are profiting from it today. I think further, that even in the last World War, which was more destructive, and the fruits of which were probably more disappointing than those of any other war, I still believe that we and civilization is better off today, on account of the last World War, because Hitler was defeated, and I think that his victory over the world would have been worse than anything that has followed the Second World War. I think we're faced with this terrible alternative, such as the people in the Middle Ages were, an enemy which has a philosophy that's intrinsically evil. In the Middle Ages, the Pope called for the Crusades. Why did he call forth the Crusades? Because Christianity was threatened, civilization was threatened, and people from all Western Europe tramped across one continent after another, one country after another, in order to come to the defense of the Holy Land. Well, I would take it from that, that the Church sees that under certain circumstances, it's better for us to make tremendous sacrifices than to submit to an enemy who is, in a moral way of thinking, intrinsically bad. Now, you're saying that the present circumstances might very well call for a new crusade, and that this new enemy is international communism? Is that what you have in mind? Father Cardinal, it seems to me that when a nation claims it's fighting a holy war, it is claiming that its ends are God's, but that its methods are its own. Well, George, where do you get the methods from? The methods are the methods that nature's given you to use, and we have to use the violent methods, of course, as St. Thomas says, only as the last extremity. We must try to make use of negotiations, we must try to make use of people, so that all possible efforts are used in order to avoid the disasters of war. It seems to me that as confessing Christians, we ought not to give the impression that without a sword, we're defenseless, because the power of the Spirit is the power on which we have relied down through the ages. The only thing that could outmatch the sin of the world was not a might that could destroy, but a love that could not be destroyed. I think that the threat of world communism in the world today is unique. At least it's unique in any of the histories immediately before us that are at all relevant to our situation. And I think the defense of Christianity and civilization against that threat is something to which every Christian owes allegiance. And I firmly believe that if Russia should start a war against us, and we should say, we are Christians, therefore we won't fight, come in and take over the country, then I think that in 20 years, Christianity and civilizations and the institutions of this land would totally disappear and be succeeded by the dictatorship of the Russian tyrants. I think that's worse than anything that could come from a third world war. Professor O'Neill, you know very well that Christianity has faced dictatorships and tyrants and oppression before, and certainly if you believe that Christianity is God working in the world, that you know that God is not going to be destroyed. I think God is working in the world through his servants in the human race and that they ought to live up to the obligation. Mr. Dermot, I'd like to put this question to you. You say war is evil. Well, supposing that everybody in the United States would agree with your position, we would have here in the United States 150 million people who would refuse to fight. Now, I wonder just what the Soviet government would do with such a situation. I'm very much afraid, judging from their record, that they would take advantage of us and say, well, now here this group is ready to pluck. We had better take advantage of this. And it seems to me, although we respect your position, your position can be maintained only because there is an army in the United States, or we hope that there will be an army in the United States, that will help to protect your rights. Well, I believe that we're going to be much safer if we don't have an army in the United States or an army anywhere else. I hope the president pushes for all it's worth. This emphasis he made before the United Nations, that we must have world disarmament. You don't need meeting strength with strength. The president said that. We have to meet strength with strength. In other words, when Russia's strong, the only effective opposition we can give Russia, the only thing she will respect, will be the strength that we have. Well, wasn't it at Potsdam, it seems to me that it was there that Mr. Stalin and Mr. Truman were talking, and Mr. Truman was telling about the Pope's attitude toward war and toward Russian aggression. And unless I'm mistaken, Stalin came back with a question something like this. How many divisions does the Pope have? Yes, you know what that meant. Yeah, you and I know that the Pope isn't relying on that kind. The power that he is relying on is the power of the spirit. Now, you coming back to your question about if we all in the United States refused, for instance, to fight. Well, now, there's more than just refusing to fight. With that, goodwill toward other people. There must be the desire to put into the construction of other countries the money that we would put into the destruction of other countries. It seems to me that has to go with the things I'm seeing. Well, just think of the amount of goodwill that we have shown towards Russia. A tremendous amount. We offered them the Marshall Plan, for instance, and they have refused that. We have invited Mr. Stalin to come to Washington and confer with the President on these problems, and he has refused that. We've given 1,001 opportunities of showing the Soviet people that we are friendly. Durham, do you think that the, in spite of the things that Father Cardinal has just outlined, things that we've done, do you think that the Russians genuinely fear us? Well, I am driven to feel that way because I don't see any way that we could whip up opposition to Russia here if it were not basically for fear of Russia. And I think that they are using the same methods to fight us because they have plenty of examples, you know, to use. They can point to the way we have gone clear outside the borders of our state just as they have to make satellites of people. Only we are trying to make satellites right on the edge of their country or as close to them as we can get. And we have air bases around the world. We were calling, you remember, for air bases across the Pacific. Now, what does Russia think we want air bases for? Not for passenger service, certainly. And why wouldn't she be afraid? I think she probably is very definitely afraid of us just as we are afraid of her. Well, in terms of the criteria laid down by, say, Thomas Aquinas, you're saying in substance, then, that we have not properly evoked all peaceful methods of dealing with Russia short of war. Oh, I think that's true. We have not. I think these gentlemen feel we haven't either or we wouldn't still be negotiating. It seems to me that we haven't, in Russia, the kind of an enemy that Mr. Durham is talking about. We have, I think, the most concrete reasons, evidence, in the history of Russia since the close of the last war for being very much afraid of their purposes throughout the world. I don't think they have any realistic basis for that. I should like to know, for instance, what country the United States has taken over and made a satellite out of in, since the, well, at any time. Where are the countries that we have treated the way Russia has treated Poland, Latvia, Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia, as far as they could? Where have we done that? They have done it. They have moved into countries and with the aid of a handful of well-armed men, they have taken over and imprisoned and executed the people who opposed it. Has America done anything like that? Why shouldn't we fear a country that does that wherever they have a chance? And why should they fear us when we are doing the opposite? We offered the country's help, we offered them the Marshall Plan. Now, to say that we're doing what they're doing seems to me is pretty far-fetched. I don't think it's so much a fear of the United States that the Russians have. I don't think they have it. They use that with their people, I suppose, for propaganda purposes. But it's a part of their philosophy that the Soviet system will succeed only in the measure that the world is converted to it or forced into it. And that is why we fear Russia so much. And I think we have to recognize that fact because it's very, very fundamental in this whole struggle that it is a struggle of philosophies and maybe more than that is struggle for the survival of Christianity. Well, now, Father comes back to a point that's been made several times here. I think first by Mr. O'Neill. We face a new kind of threat. I'd like to suggest another new thing under the sun that may affect a Christian attitude toward war, indeed anyone's attitude toward war. Is it possible that scientific developments are such that a new war on a grand scale is likely to end civilization as we know it, Mr. O'Neill? Maybe there's another new thing we ought to consider in debating an attitude toward war. I think there's a possibility that the atomic bomb and the hydrogen bomb and bacteriological warfare may end civilization as we know it. I think that's a possibility. And I think if we engage Russia, if they attack us, and we fight instead of surrender, we run the risk of that. Would you run that risk? I'd run that risk because I think, on the other hand, we're not running in a risk, we're running into a certainty of the end of civilization if Russia dominates the world. And I'd rather take the chance than the certainty. As a Christian, would you recommend dropping atom bombs? If it was necessary to save the future of the United States and Christianity and civilization, I should drop atom bombs without a moment's hesitation. Would you, Father Cardinal? Well, first, let me... As a last resort. First, let me say that the French cardinals in a statement which they made this summer came out clearly against the use of the atomic bomb that was absolutely immoral. And of course, their position was sustained by Father McCarthy who teaches theology at Maynooth Seminary in Dublin. On the other hand, we have the dean of the School of Sacred Theology in Washington, Father Cardinal, who says that under certain circumstances, under an extreme, extreme circumstances, it would be morally justifiable to drop the atomic bomb. Now there we have the doctors disagreeing. And when the doctors disagree, then we are more or less in a position of making up our own minds on the whole thing. And my personal opinion would be that if all other means fail, and if we were sure that by dropping the atomic bomb on the Kremlin, that we would save our own civilization and save Western Europe, then I think it would be justifiable. Would you ever be sure of that? Well, we talk as though Russia isn't a part of our civilization today. Think of what Russia has contributed to us. Well, Russia is not a part of our civilization. Russia accepts a philosophy which is absolutely contrary to ours, fundamentally different. it's absolutely atheistic and consequently enemy number one. Well, just because they disagree with us in their philosophy and particularly in their economics, is that any reason to feel that we can't live along with them? No, no, no. I don't think you should have brought in that problem. Economics has nothing to do with it. Well, is there any reason that you can't live with those same people? If they let you, I would. Yes, we have told the Soviet people time and time again if they're willing to remain on their side of the fence that we will say live and let live as our philosophy, but they're not willing to accept that kind of a thing. Well, no, I don't think the world is the kind of a world where you can keep a person on their side of the fence, either they on their side or we on our side. It's the kind of a world, it seems to me, in which people have to live together and certainly, basically, that is in the Christian doctrine, too, wouldn't you say? No, no, oil and water won't mix and Russia and the United States are so different that it is a question of the oil and water. I don't think we're trying to, I don't think we're trying to take over Russia or to dominate their way of life, but I think that wherever they have a chance, they have taken over other countries and compelled them to follow a communist way of life whether they wanted to or not. Russia has never won a plebiscite in a free election in its history. Now, look at the countries that they dominate. We're not trying to dominate them and my point is if they insist on dominating us and attack us in order to carry out that purpose, then we should oppose them, that's all. I'm not for any crusade into going to Russia and make Russia conform to our economics or our theology. Well, now, I'm in favor of opposition to evil in Russia or evil in our own country for we also have some very serious evil in our own country and ways of discrimination. But the question is, and the question that's before us today is the method we'll use and it seems to me that Christians have to oppose the way of war. I was interested in a Catholic point of view as expressed by Edward Ingram Watkins who is author of the Catholic Art and Culture and who wrote in the Catholic Peacemaker published in England this. Even a just war must not be waged by immoral means. Under modern conditions, however, he goes on to say, war can be waged only by such aerial bombing as must involve the slaughter and maiming of innocent civilians. This, however, is plainly immoral. To kill the innocent is not a lawful means to any end, however good. therefore, he says, under modern conditions, no war can be waged without employing immoral means. Therefore, it must be unjustifiable. Now, I'd agree with him. Well, yes. Well, that's the opinion of one man. I've already given you the opinion of two or three people who feel that the atomic bomb and his other means of conquering people or defending yourself could be morally defensible and morally justifiable. Now, I wonder if Durham, in the closing minutes here, would spell out in a little greater detail what course of action he would suggest. Are you suggesting that we might employ a more conciliatory attitude toward Russia in the interest of a peaceful settlement is that your point of view? Well, in the first place, I'm saying that as Christians, all three of us gentlemen believe that there is only one God and that he is God of the Russians as well as of ourselves and that in the eyes of God, all people have significance and it seems to me that so often, we and every other country does the same thing, think in terms of using a method which will save perhaps as many lives of our folks as possible knowing that it's going to take many, many lives of another people. Now, from the Christian standpoint, I seriously question that. I feel that the purpose and the method of Jesus and that's my norm for saying the Christian method is the method of seeking reconciliation with people through around the conference table, through sharing our means and our skill and ability with them and through goodwill toward them and that we must follow that method. We don't have to live, gentlemen. Jesus didn't have to live either. Durham has restated his position in a sentence or two yours. My position is that we should use all of these methods of conference and help as far as they'll work but if we come to the point where it's the Russian dominating the world and destroying Christianity and civilization, I think at that point we have no longer an opportunity to use them and we should oppose them with everything we've got. A sentence or two your closing position, Father. I think that defense is one of the natural rights of man and that time and again man through the course of history has had to defend himself and that possibly, unfortunately, the time will come again when he will have to have recourse to arms in order to preserve what he has. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion How Should Christians Look at War? For your printed copy of this transcribed broadcast with a list of books and articles about this interesting subject, send 10 cents and Cohen to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Better yet, start your subscription to the Reviewing Stand with a copy of this discussion. $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for the entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were the Reverend Edward V. Cardinal, the Reverend G. Eugene Durham, and James O'Neill. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will present a discussion of the subject, The Function of Criticism in a National Emergency. Our guests will be Spencer Allen, director of the Newsreel Department of WGN-TV, Douglas Morgan, chairman of the Department of Philosophy, Northwestern University, and Victor Ovenhouse, associate professor of the Church in Agricultural and Industrial Life of the Federated Theological Faculty at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the subject, The Function of Criticism in a National Emergency. Frank Babcock speaking. This program came to you from Chicago. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
