Folks, this is Bing Crosby reminding you of the big Air Force reunion in Madison Square Garden on Saturday, September the 25th. On that date, the Air Forces will express their appreciation to all the members of the theatrical profession who entertained our boys overseas. Many top performers of stage, screen, and radio, including Bouncing Bob... Ooh, okay, okay. ...will be there to make it a great evening. Why don't you join the Air Force veterans from all over the country in a real hangar session? Remember, the big show is at Madison Square Garden, September the 25th in New York City. Thank you very much. Hello, this is Jinx Falkenberg, and during the war, I used to shortwave a sugar report on news back home to GIs overseas. Well, this is a sugar report on a terrific show being hooked up for the Air Force reunion at Madison Square Garden, Saturday night, September 25th. The name of it, Operation Wingding, starring Bob Hope, Jimmy Stewart, Dinah Shore, Clark Gable, Marlena Dietrich, Joey Brown, Jane Froman, and lots of others. And I'll be there, too, doing all I know how to do, batting out autographed tennis balls by your favorite movie stars. See you at the Wingding, September 25th at Madison Square Garden. fellows, when they told me about this reunion of the Air Corps, getting together air veterans from all over America, I said swell. And when they asked me to be on the program at Madison Square Garden, I said sure I will. And I said it so fast because, well, it was because perfectly clear that that program would be great to work for. It would be just like old times out in New Guinea, but without the mosquitoes in the steamy jungle. Or like India, without the heat and dust. Like Italy, without the mud. Like France, England, or any of those other places, without spam. Like all the places that I saw you kids overseas when we laughed and kitted and pretended that war wasn't rugged and tough. I remember so many of you guys. And I wondered so often what happened to you since the war. I'm looking forward to September the 25th at the Garden and the chance to work for you once again and shake the hand of... Oh, half a thousand or more air veterans that I think the world of for the things that they did for me personally. And for a lot of other Americans who, unfortunately, have forgotten you already slightly. But don't be bitter about it. You know, you were swell during those tours of mine, and it's going to give me deep satisfaction to be able to salute the Air Force. And the men who made it the greatest, the world's greatest air power. See you at the Garden. Bye. Attention all airmen. As a fellow veteran, I want you to know that Saturday night, September 25th, is your night. A big night, whether you are in the Air Force or the next month. Friends from your squadron will be at Madison Square Garden, the greatest airmen's entertainment and reunion in history. Your show will be sponsored by the Air Force Association as a benefit for the Air Force Aid Society. Your money will go to immediate veterans of all services. I urge you to attend and enjoy yourselves at this great show. Thank you. Thank you.
