Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable comes to you from Washington from a meeting in the Statler Hotel of the University of Chicago alumni of Washington DC. To begin today's Roundtable on how to correct world misconception about America, we present Walter Johnson, historian of the University of Chicago, and chairman of the board of foreign scholarships of the Fulbright Exchange of Persons. And now, Mr. Johnson. Today on this program, we're going to discuss one important way of winning the peace. This is not a military discussion of how to win wars. As a people, we've learned that just winning wars is not sufficient. One of the serious blocks in our way of winning the peace is the serious misconceptions about the United States that exists over the overseas, even among our closest allies. Senator Fulbright, you have taken an active interest in trying to correct these misconceptions. And you followed the Fulbright Exchange of Persons program through Congress as a concrete step in changing these misconceptions. What, Senator Fulbright, impresses you most about these misconceptions? Well, Mr. Johnson, I think the first thing is that they're mostly based upon ignorance of America, that the people do not know the facts about us. They have been misled for the past 20 or 30 years, which has presented, I think, the very worst aspects of American life. They are inclined to think we're all millionaires, that we never work, that many of us are gangsters, that we have no understanding or appreciation of any spiritual or cultural values. And that, I think, is a misconception that has very great implications on our political relations. Senator Fulbright, and you Perry Miller, you took a year's leave from your professorship in American literature at Harvard, and you taught American literature and culture in Europe on a Fulbright grant, and also at the invitation of the University of Leiden. You also wrote for the March Atlantic Monthly an article called What Drove Me Crazy in Europe. How would you analyze these misconceptions? Senator Fulbright, and you have to think that there are many of them, and there are many sources of them, but I think it all comes down really to one thing, at least in the field we're talking about. That is that American education has deviated from European examples. And on the level of educated conversation, which is to say diplomatic or ECA or anything else, the European simply does not understand the reason for these deviations in American education. He thinks they are concessions to a vulgar way of life, and he does not understand the experience out of which the American conception of education has come, and therefore he does not understand certain very important qualities of the American mind. This makes for great misunderstanding on both sides. Well, there is great sensitiveness and restlessness overseas, and uneasiness about the United States. Questions frequently opposed to you, do we have a culture in America? Do we have the wisdom to carry out a role as leader of the West in the present situation? And where there isn't outright suspicion, there certainly is a good deal of concern about instability and uncertainties as to American politics and American foreign policy. On a recent trip that I just took for the Fulbright program, where I investigated the program in some 12 countries, I was quite struck, Senator Fulbright, by the remark of an important American ambassador, who said that he would divide American foreign relations with other powers in his lifetime as a career serviceman into three areas. First, political, which would be up to 1914, the relations on political matters of the United States with other nations. Then after the first war, until the second war, he would add to the political, economic relations. And then he said that the third has come since 1945, political, economic, and to those you add cultural and educational exchange. Well, now, since you fathered the Fulbright program through Congress, I wonder if you would explain something of the origins of this type of an exchange program. Well, of course, as far as my part in it, it was influenced undoubtedly by the fact that I had had a scholarship back in 1925. And then in the political experience in the Congress, we had been plagued by the war debts of the First World War. It was a combination of those two thoughts, I would say, that led me to introduce the legislation in 1945. In September, immediately after the war was over in trying to make use of the results of the results of that war to improve the cultural relations, which I felt, and agree with whoever this was that you spoke to abroad, that you had spoken to abroad, that you had spoken to the war. And I think that this is an area in which we can do the most for promoting better international relations. And the cultural aspect of it can have very great and lasting effect upon the political relations. May I try to summarize at the present moment that we have overseas right now some 1,200 Americans on the Fulbright program. We have here in the United States approximately 1,200 nationals of some 18 countries around the world. On Fulbright travel grants and then they are supported in the United States partly by private universities, private groups, and also by the Department of State and the Congress of the United States through the Smith-Munt appropriation of dollars. Now in terms of the selection of these people, again in a hasty summary, under the law that you fathered through Congress, a Board of Foreign Scholarships appointed by the President of the United States. And this Board selects all the people who receive grants under this program with cooperation of educational groups in the United States to help us achieve the best quality that is possible. And these particular students and faculty that we send overseas, public school teachers, university professors, all go to some 18 countries at the present moment. And the theme behind all of this operation is that the United States needs more than just diplomatic negotiation. We need to have people understand people, particularly key people in each of these 18 countries, understanding American culture and concentrating on these problems that face all of us. But in this whole operation of a program such as Fulbright, one meets very quickly such questions, isn't it nothing more or less than cultural imperialism on the part of the United States? Now you, Miller, you spent a year overseas on Fulbright and another type of grant. What would you answer to such a question? I think you will have to be honest about it and face the fact that such a suspicion exists. I think the Fulbright, working out of the Fulbright program as I have seen it, has done more than any one thing that I know of to dissipate that suspicion. For one thing, of course, the members, people of the country itself are on the board that do the choosing. They have a great deal to say about it and nothing is imposed upon them. In the second place, and most important, the Fulbright student really goes to Europe. I'm speaking particularly of the continent and he lives there. One of the great tragedies about European and American relationships is the vast number of Americans who go for reasons that are quite comprehensible culturally and historically as tourists. And they go through Europe treating it as a playground. The great thing about the Fulbright student is that he really goes and lives for a year among students, among people, really in the world. Really in the society. Isn't the same true of the European who really comes, I mean, who really lives among Americans here? Is there any better way to give him the truth about America? I'm delighted to hear you say that, Senator, because ever since this experience last year, I've been hammering on this theme in every way I can think of. I think it is very important to bring over labor leaders or politicians or people who need to know about certain aspects of American life. But I think the most important thing we can do is bring more and more young students from foreign countries, particularly from Europe, bring them here when they are young, and give them a good ordinary year at an ordinary American college. I have met the few to whom this experience, and I swear they are the best agents of American and European friendship I encountered. I feel exactly that way. Of course, when I first had the idea that my thoughts ran more to Americans going abroad, I was more conscious then of the isolationism of the United States and of our problems. In the intervening five years, I think our isolationism, I say I think, I'm not sure. We hope. Coming from Chicago, maybe you don't agree with me. But it is in the decline. Therefore, I have shifted to feel that the bringing of foreigners to this country is perhaps for the purposes we had in mind more effective. And when they do go into the smaller communities of this country and begin to sense the basic values of our civilization, I think we are making progress. I don't think anybody, with all deference to your great ability as a writer, is able to adequately describe what is the essence of American life. Oh, it's impossible. And it's particularly impossible when you're in Europe. As a matter of fact, I think what you do when you're in Europe is finally convey something about the essence of the American life, not by what you say or by your scholarship, but by the way you act. That's right. Well, Senator Fulbright, as you well know, one of the weaknesses of our Fulbright operation is that the money available for the program exists in terms of currencies, locked currencies, owed the United States government. And this currency is not convertible into dollars. Therefore, in terms of bringing foreign nationals to the United States, all we can do under Fulbright is pay their round-trip travel. Once they arrive here, we have to try to seek fellowships from private groups for them. And fortunately, in the last year, the Congress of the United States appropriated approximately six million dollars to, under the Smith-Munt law, to help backstop Fulbright in order to give dollars to the people we bring on travel grants. And also, of course, to bring people from countries not under the Fulbright program. But that's been a great step ahead in the past year. Well, of course, one of the reasons why we have programs like this is I hope the people of this country will have enough interest in it to instruct their congressmen to give us a little money on these programs. If they're interested in peace rather than victory in wars, I think this kind of program, as I see it, is a right, adequate substitute for victory in wars. Well, I think Senator Fulbright is an outstanding example of the value of bringing certain key people from very important countries on a Fulbright travel grant and then Smith-Munt or Congressional dollars. And one very important country, there was a leading educational official who was brought here something over a year ago, and he studied American education for a few months. When he went back to that country, he instituted some very important reforms in the educational structure, which, among other things, allowed the introduction of American culture and studies as a program that students of this country could study to get a degree in that particular nation. That was an outstanding achievement as a result of having that man here for just three or four months. Oh, and that kind of thing is very much on the increase in Europe, and it's a very healthy and welcome sign. Of course, one always has the feeling one's racing against time in these matters, but you can't always be too impatient and demand immediate results in these fields, because if you do, you spoil the whole town and tenor of the enterprise. But the eagerness of young European students, I can testify to this, the eagerness to know about America, and particularly their eagerness to understand the modern American literature, which is read astonishingly widely, particularly the American novel. It is really one of the great channels, possible channels of communication between this country and Europe, and if it is not developed as fully as possible, we are failing our responsibility. Well, in this general area of the charge that our exchange programs of cultural imperialism, I would like to point out that on this recent trip that took me through Europe, and the Middle East, and out through Southeast Asia, that most of these people are weary of direct propaganda, of direct means of attempting to explain America. And the Fulbright program is in quite a different category with these people, because not only in this country does the Board of Foreign Scholarships, a group of private educators, select the people who are going to receive these grants, but as you, Miller, have pointed out, overseas in every Fulbright country, there's a Fulbright Foundation, usually appointed by the American Ambassador, that's made up equally of Americans and of the nationals of the country. And that particular foundation helps our board here in Washington plan the country program, and also they have the power to reject any of the people we recommend. But once they accept the names we recommend, those people are as much their people as they are our people. And this is a very important way so that we cannot be charged with direct imperialism. I can testify to the truth of that statement, because I served on one of those boards and watched a couple of the others in action last year. And I can see that at the meeting of those boards, the American and the European nationals and the other have to fight things out and they educate each other. And I mean each other. The Americans have to learn as much as the Europeans. It does make a problem, you see, when you want to give a certain kind of student or send over a certain kind of American teacher who doesn't fit neatly into the rubrics of the European University. Then you have to fight the thing out. And that makes for a very interesting interchange of ideas. But I think already in the short time the effect, as some of my European friends may think this is a little patronizing, but it's not. I really think the effect on the European universities has been tremendous because it has given them a sense at any rate that some of these crazy things that we do in America belong at any rate to the American culture. And that's a great thing, James. Well, Senator Fulbright, since you were an Oxford student back in the 20s, I'm sure that you'd be interested in the fact that when we reached Oxford on this trip, we visited one college. And the head of that college said that the Americans we had sent them under Fulbright in the past two years were such superior people that he was holding a spot open this coming fall for Fulbright. He would take the students, sight unseen. He didn't even care to see the documents because the people who had been sent so far were so good, he'd take them. Now that's an achievement. Oh, indeed it is. They didn't say that when I was in Oxford. Maybe it is. There's one other thought I did want to say about this being imperialism. I think there's a very great difference between this exchange program and the usual propaganda program of all governments. And let us compare and analyze for a moment the situation we're in with regard to the Russia. This is a program which we can pursue and only we can pursue with complete openness. We invite and welcome people to our country. It's the one area where we cannot be matched by the Russians. We are, let's just, I'm not talking about war now, but competing for the understanding and allegiance of the people of the world. This is an area where we have it all our own way because they dare not permit people freely to come and go in their country. It isn't imperialism if all we're seeking to do is to enable people to learn the truth without interference. If we brought them here and sought to guide them about and to indoctrinate them would be one thing. It might be called imperialism. But when all you do is expose yourself to critical examination, I can't see how it is it can possibly be called imperialism. Well, I think it's quite right, Senator, because the basic problem is a problem in communication. It really is communication. I think it was Winston Churchill who said that America and England were two great nations held apart by a common language. And in a sense you can say about all Europe and America that they are held apart by that which they have in common in the Western European tradition because therefore, through European eyes, these divergences which have developed out of frontier experience and peculiar American experience, seem retrograde and peculiar. And those things loom very much larger in their eyes than the things that they really are very much more close to in Russia. Well, another question I'd like to pose for this University of Chicago roundtable is the question, does it take too long for this type of an educational program to pay off? Do we have time to invest in a program of this nature? Well, I certainly feel that there is a long-term aspect, but there's an immediate, important aspect to this exchange program. The very fact that this government officially evidenced interest in this kind of a relationship itself had a great impact upon many of our important allies, particularly the French and the Italians and all the Latin peoples who had had the idea that Americans are interested only in bigger and better Cadillacs and bigger and better gadgets and so on. Now, the very fact that we have shown an interest in the cultural aspects of their civilizations or our own and exhibiting to them has had, I think, very important repercussions in our relations. Well, on this recent trip carrying through countries, say, from Egypt through to Burma, where the British once controlled politically and are now out, I think I saw a vivid demonstration of how educational exchange pays off. The British, as you well know, Senator Fulbright, and you too, Miller, over a 30, 40-year period, educated almost all the important leaders of these countries out through that area. You're going to talk to a key official of one of these governments and he'll be openly British, anti-British. He'll denounce Great Britain. And then suddenly you'll ask him a question of how they are solving certain problems educationally, and you'll quickly discover they're doing it the British way. Unconsciously, they are thinking the British manner of doing things. And here you can see this country after country from Egypt through to Burma. So that Great Britain learned a long while ago that a short-range policy is a short-sighted policy that you have to plan for the years to come as well as for tomorrow. I quite agree with that. I quite agree with the Senator. There have been immediate effects. But I'm interested also in assessing these long-range effects. Although, of course, if I were in the Congress of the United States trying to argue this thing, as Senator Fulbright is, I suppose it would be a little difficult to ask people to wait. But the world in general thinks Americans are much too impatient. They want to get things done right away. And the fact that there is one field of our dealings with foreign peoples where we can say this is a long-range program, we don't expect to get immediate results and cash value right here and now, is a very impressive thing to a lot of people. They just blink and say, is this really the Americans? Well, indeed it is. I think we are too impatient. I want to cite, just for the record, that our experience in a very limited way with the Belgian-American Foundation set up after the First World War certainly confirms in, I think, a dramatic way the importance, effectiveness of this kind of a program, although only 700 participants in that program over a course of 20 years. Well, from the standpoint of this trip I took, there's another observation that came to me, and that was that in most of the time, and that was that in most of these countries, and this would be even more important as you move eastward into the Middle East and Southeast Asia, intellectuals, educators, civil servants, they all play a tremendously important role in government policy and informing public opinion. I'd say more than the same group in the United States does on a proportional basis. Therefore, if you can reach the educators, the so-called intellectuals of these societies, and persuade them through good people from America who are sent to conduct their specialty, and just do a good job in their specialty, you're increasing their belief in the prestige of the United States, their knowledge of the United States, and also, of course, if we could bring some of them to the United States, they would get over some of the misconceptions we've already mentioned. Now, from the standpoint of the long-range aspects, too, this, this, Miller, comes down to the whole question, doesn't it, in American life, of education anyway? How can you add education up in terms of the payoff? I don't know any way you can do it. You always have to think of people like Abraham Lincoln, who have much of what we call formal education, and I think it's part of the American tradition always to preserve a healthy skepticism about the value of too much education. But on the other hand, the requirements of the modern world are such that, obviously, if you don't have educated people, you can't cope with the society or with the mechanisms of modern life. And we know that very well. I think the greatest problem I had in Europe on this score was persuading my European friends that there are people in America who have the kind of disinterested concern or devotion to education and to the pursuit of culture, which is traditionally, at any rate, a European virtue. The general European argument would be, oh, well, of course, you can do these wonderful things in medical school and engineering schools because you have the means, you have the money, the machinery, the laboratories. And it is very difficult to persuade them that all of this has come about in America because there have been a great number of Americans who are just passionately concerned about these things. And that is, that again, is something that this interchange must do and show over and over and over again that such people exist in this country. Well, from the standpoint of actual examples of concrete value of the program up to date, when we reached the Philippines, we discovered that the Filipinos who have received Fulbright travel grants to this country, about 110 of them up to date, and of course, there are a great many of them here this year. Those 110 had organized the Filipinos Fulbright Scholars Association. And they've got a Fulbright song, using your name in vain, sir. And they, uh, this particular association has been organized to raise money in the Philippines for scholarships for Filipino students. And more important than the immediate, a week before we arrived in the Philippines, they had gone to see the President of the Philippine Republic. And they had explained to him that there was an intellectual blackout in the Philippines because customs duties were so high on educational books, the educators of the Philippines could not import educational books in English from the United States. And after an hour's discussion with the President, he immediately removed the books from that high customs duty area. So here is an immediate impact in terms of the value of, uh, of the program for the Filipinos themselves and for, uh, the American people in terms of, uh, long-range education after the immediate block has been removed. Now you, Senator Fulbright, have many examples I know of, uh, uh, the values of the program. I gather many of our grantees have written to you ever since they've been under Fulbright's, uh, sponsorship. Oh, yes, I, they, they all, a great many, write to me and come to see me. I've been trying to urge them to go see some of our colleagues in the Congress, uh, hoping that they might, uh, uh, list some new converts, but they have, uh, been to see me and, uh, I have no doubt about the, the impact it's having both upon, uh, the Americans and upon the foreign students, uh, which is, to me, most hopeful. I may say I'm still enthusiastic about the program. Another good example that we ran into in terms of the concrete value was when we got to Egypt. Uh, the, uh, dean of one of the important colleges at, uh, the main university there in Cairo had been a UN delegate here in the fall and he attended the World Series, fell in love with baseball. And what intrigued him particularly was there were 60,000 Americans out at every game yelling, uh, yelling, kill the umpire, and nobody got killed. And he decided, he decided that, uh, what, what was needed in your, in Egyptian universities was some extracurricular activities for their students. Most world universities lack extracurricular activities or athletics. And so he found in his faculty when he got back an American there studying under the Fulbright program. Well, he put this American Fulbrighter to work coaching the first Egyptian baseball team. And that baseball team played the American Embassy team about a month ago. And now this dean has raised some money from the Egyptian government. Unfortunately, the embassy team won. Uh, the, uh, this, uh, dean is raising money from the Egyptian government now to get equipment to, so that every school in the Egyptian university system will have, uh, baseball, not just as a sport, but as a social activity to aid these restless students to let off steam so that unfortunate elements will not take over and make them anti-American. Well, I'm sure the death rate will go down substantially as a result of that. And so, you know how many they kill in their periodic riots in, in Cairo with these students. It's been, uh, typical of students in many Latin American countries. Oh, it's a sport. They riot instead of, they riot instead of going to football games or baseball games. Well, as one, uh, journalist, uh, has said about the United States, uh, the United States is an adolescent, uh, uh, elected to the prime ministership of the world. And the world leadership that, uh, we have today certainly requires of all of us more than just formal diplomatic relations in the older sense of that term. It requires, I think above, uh, all things, an informed group of citizens in, uh, this country and in countries overseas who, uh, in order that all of these informed citizens will know something about the ideas and the desires of the other nations in this complex world of ours. And it seems to me, uh, uh, particularly important that other countries understand American ideals and aspirations. And under the Fulbright Program, we are doing our best to make sure that, uh, distinguished figures in American culture and civilization, like Perry Miller here, go overseas to, uh, lecture in this particular area. And it does, too, uh, seem that there's no doubt that radio, newspapers, films, all have roles to play in explaining aspects of American life to other peoples. But the most effective means, at least I think, of doing this is by exchanging persons in important leadership areas between the United States and other countries. And through these key people, whether they be, uh, educators, writers, labor leaders, government officials, uh, talking to key Americans, misunderstandings and misconceptions can be changed about the United States and our misconceptions about other nations. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on How to Correct World Misconceptions About America, were J. William Fulbright, United States Senator from Arkansas, Perry Miller, Specialist in American Literature at Harvard University, last year Fulbright Scholar in Europe, and Walter Johnson, Historian of the University of Chicago and Chairman of the Board of Foreign Scholarships of the Fulbright Exchange of Persons. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and publishes additional background articles on the facts and opportunities of the Fulbright International Student and Teachers Exchange Program. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Today's program originated from a meeting of the University of Chicago alumni of Washington, D.C. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and as an NBC Public Service presentation. Groucho Marx and Ginger Rogers visit the Big Show today. Listen on NBC, the National Broadcasting Company. On buddy. Go address Dennisee for the Starship Cube International. That's a very stunning project. theaters in Jamilburg Lake Sonata. keine furtherwn thee第一ka menor. dari Not dogma di enamik ne AS