If you're an American who happens to be a Protestant or a Catholic or a Jew, if you want simply to live at peace with your neighbor, be warned, there are troublemakers at large. Be warned and aroused, there are troublemakers gnawing away at your liberties. We present The Troublemakers, a brief exploration of bigotry in America. This program is based on an important new book called The Troublemakers, an Anti-Defamation League report by Arnold Forster and Benjamin R. Epstein, recently published by Doubleday and Company. And now by transcription, The Troublemakers. In 1951, in a pleasant residential section of Los Angeles called Limert Park, this happened. Dear, would you mind getting the mail while I swallow this coffee? I'm late. Sure thing. You get later every morning. I'm getting too used to that alarm clock. It's just music to my ears. Look, Preston. What? Just look here. Now, that's a real pretty package. Who is it from? What's in it? Well, give me a chance to open it. Oh, Preston, do you think... Oh, Preston, wouldn't it be wonderful if it was from one of our neighbors? Wouldn't it be fine if they had decided it didn't matter that we're colored? They want us to live here anyway and be good neighbors. Wouldn't it be wonderful, though, Preston? It sure would, honey. It sure would. Well, don't stand there dreaming. Open it up. I am. I'm unwrapping it just as fast as I can. Oh, Preston. Oh! From one of our neighbors, all right. A pretty package. Inside, a dead rat. That actually happened in 1951 to Mr. and Mrs. Preston Wilson of Limert Park, Los Angeles. And the Reverend George H. Dunn, a Catholic clergyman of Los Angeles, had an ironic observation to make about the incident. It should be sufficiently obvious that people like Mr. and Mrs. Wilson, who have not as yet acquired such refined social graces as the art of leaving dead rats on their neighbor's doorstep, can hardly be assimilated in this kind of a neighborhood. When they've learned to leave dead rats on their neighbor's front porch, they'll be better equipped to meet the stringent standards of the white neighborhood. Social bigotry, race hatred, religious bias. The troublemakers do their dirty work on many fronts. The troublemakers. The men and women who seize on the small fears and confusions of people and make them big fears and great confusions, who magnify the divisions among us at a time when our country needs our unity. Negroes, of course, are favorite, time-honored targets. But no group is immune. In August 1950, in Needham, Massachusetts, this happened. You a veteran? We give priority on these houses to veterans, you know. Yeah, I'm a veteran. I got a son who was in the infantry. You in the infantry? Yeah. I was in the death march on Bataan. Spent four years in a Jap prison camp. Yes. Well, now, about this house. It's a real pretty development I'm building out here. Yes, it is. Needham's nice and quiet, too. Just what my doctor says I need. Just what the doctor ordered, eh? Well, now, I'll just fill out one of these application cards for you, Mr., um... Kaplan. Sumner L. Kaplan. Well, now, Mr. Kaplan. Kaplan, eh? That's right. K-A-P-L-A-N. Mr. Kaplan, I'm sorry. Real sorry, but I can't sell you one of these houses. Well, what do you mean you can't sell me? Let me give you a friendly tip, Mr. Kaplan. Why don't you look somewhere else? I can find some other place for you, but not here. Not in this development. But it's just what I want. What's the matter with it? Now, don't get me wrong, Mr. Kaplan. It ain't me. Why, why, some of my best friends are Jews. I sold all the other houses here with the understanding that I wouldn't sell the Jews. Nothing personal, understand? But, uh, well, there's lots of places allow Jews. Lots. Why, why don't you start looking around? All right. Okay, I'll, I'll look somewhere else. You know, it's funny, though. The Japs didn't care whether I was Jewish or not. When they made life a hell for us, they didn't ask our religion. No, to them we were Americans. They didn't care if we were Catholics, Protestants, or Jews. But, but here in the United States, people do care. And they show it. Why is it? Why does it have to be that way? Why does it have to be that way? The troublemakers have the answer. By pamphlet, newspaper, broadside, magazine, letter, word of mouth, their poison pours forth. The lies multiply. The result, on the personal level of the Wilsons and of Sumner Kaplan, is violence to the human spirit. But, sometimes, sometimes, there is violence of another kind. Like this. Cicero, Illinois. Summer, 1951. Hey, hey, give me another rock. Ain't for one window left to smash. Okay, here she goes. Bullseye! There go the boys. Hey, what are they going to do? What are they going to do? Well, I heard them say they're going to flood the apartment. Hey, look, look. They've thrown a furniture out the window. Hey, they sure are. Look, you're good. Come. Cicero. Hey! Somebody ripped the water pipe south. That's it. They can flood them up. Get your lapel buttons here. Get them here. They're free. What'd they say, mister? Keep Cicero white. Good, I'll take one. Hey, give me two. One for my kids. Give me one. Go, go, go. Keep Cicero white. Listen, listen, everybody. You can't do this. You can't destroy property. It's way. This Negro family has every right to do. You can't. Who's they think he is? Tell us we can't do it. Yeah, what's he think? Well, who wants to live next door to that? Well, they got the piano. Watch, watch what happens. Hey, they're lifting it through the window. Shove it through, man. Give it a heave. Push. Push. There it goes. There it goes. There it goes. There it goes. Yeah! Cicero, Illinois, 1951. A victory of violence for the troublemakers. The victims, Harvey E. Clark, Jr., his wife, and their two children. Harvey E. Clark, Jr., war veteran, hardworking, devoted family man, and Negro. Before the mob was through, it had caused $25,000 worth of damage to the building the Clarks had planned to move into. Damage to the Clarks, their furniture, their piano, their children's toys, was more than $7,000 worth. Physical damage. Who can calculate the deeper damage? Not to the Clarks alone, but to all of us. All Americans. Where were the police, you may ask? Why was order restored after the damage was done? Only when the governor of the state sent in the National Guard. An eyewitness has the answer. Police did nothing to break up the gangs. Police watched women pass stones from a rock pile back to the throwers in the crowd and made no effort to stop them. Police, for the most part, were in a jovial mood. They cracked jokes with the crowd and made some Jim Crow remarks. Firecrackers were thrown. One man, said to be a plainclothesman, went up to a group of kids and was heard to say, Cut out the firecrackers in case your search don't have any on you. We don't care how many stones you throw, but get rid of those firecrackers. Violence, the end product of the troublemakers. And in one state alone, Florida, in the short space of one year, the troublemakers harvested a bumper crop. Listen. Spring 1951, Miami, Florida. A bullet fired through a window of the temporary meeting place of the Tefereth Israel Northside Congregation. A month later, the restroom of the congregation's new community center dynamited. September 1951, a three-foot cross found stuck in the ground before the center. On it, such slogans as Heil Hitler and der KKK and Deutschland aber alles. September 22nd, 1951. Two charges of dynamite detonated against a wall of Carver Village, a housing project for some of Miami's miserably overcrowded Negro families. Damage, $200,000. November 30th, 1951. Carver Village bombed. December 2nd, 1951. Carver Village bombed. October 1951. Two unexploded sticks of dynamite found at the Miami Hebrew School and Congregation. December 1951. Dynamiters destroy 44 memorial windows of the Miami Hebrew School and Congregation. December 9, 1951. Carl Gables, Florida. A stick of dynamite with a half-burned fuse found at Carl Gables Jewish Center. December 23rd, 1951. A stick of dynamite planted in front of the St. Peter and St. Paul Catholic Church in Miami. Christmas night, 1951. Mims, Florida. Harry T. Moore dynamited to death in his own home. Who was Harry T. Moore? A Negro leader and a devoted American. Why was he killed? Because he was a Negro leader and a devoted American. So violence takes many shapes. And ultimately, it takes the shape of murder. What are the big issues of the day? What are the concerns of thoughtful citizens? You name it. The Korean War and the chances of war on a world scale. The menace of communism. The high cost of living. The problems of the public schools. All of us have, or should have, our opinions. And most of us grant our fellow citizens the right to hold their opinions. Take an issue like the President's Fair Employment Practices proposal. The FEPC. An honest critic of the proposal might say... It seems to me that a program of education and voluntary cooperation ought to be used to remove discrimination gradually. And it ought to happen on a state level. Now, conditions vary from state to state. I don't think federal coercion can do this job. Now, that's an honest opinion, rationally spoken, whether you agree with it or not. The troublemakers use a different idiom. FEPC means the Jews and the Negroes take over the country. It's a communist plot to mongrelize the nation. FEPC was written in Moscow, and with it the rights of white Christian Americans will be trampled in the dust. And, of course, the communists have their own ways of muddying the stream. Opposition to FEPC is an extension of American imperialism and a weapon of oppression in the hands of the ruling class against minorities. And so an important issue is distorted, twisted into a provocation for name-calling and hysteria, hatred and confusion. The facts of the case are misted over with the poison gas of troublemaking. What's the result? It becomes harder and harder for thoughtful citizens to decide the issue on its merits. And this can happen. Your name? Loretto Chaffell. Occupation? I've been director of the Children's Division of the Georgia State Welfare Department for 16 years. She's a tiny, gray-haired, rather shy lady of 55. Her family roots go deep into the history of Georgia and America. My father was the first president of the Georgia State College for Women. My mother was the founder of the local chapter of the DAR. I myself have been a member of the Georgia DAR for many years. Miss Chaffell is appearing before a joint committee of the Georgia legislature, set up to study the general administration of the Welfare Department. But the study rapidly goes further afield. Uh, Miss Chaffell, did you or did you not sign a petition for a permanent Fair Employment Practices Commission? I did. Why? Because our president had requested such legislation. Oh, Miss Chaffell, are you a communist? Are you a member of the communist party? No, sir, I am not. To my knowledge, I've never even known a communist. Miss Chaffell, you are a red from the bottom of your feet to the top of your head. I am not a communist nor a communist sympathizer. I never have been neither. I want to see peace between all men and races of men. Communists foment race and religious hatred. A communist gentleman is a dangerous species. Not one who's guilty of merely the good old American practice of holding an opinion different from someone else on politics or legislation. What? Uh, Miss Chaffell, is your explanation for having urged admission of Negroes to membership in your church? Well, I belong to the Unitarian Church and that's its national policy. I believe churches should be open to all who wish to enter. A lifetime friend of Miss Chaffell's was called as a witness. Do you, sir, favor commingling of races in churches? Jesus Christ did. That wasn't my question. Do you believe in it? Mr. Chairman, I have never advocated the commingling of the races in the churches. But to the extent that I don't believe in it, I would to that extent not be a Christian. The Atlanta Constitution, one of the South's most distinguished newspapers, commented on the case. We object to Miss Chaffell's being charged with communism without any apparent basis, save that she once signed a petition in behalf of an FEPC measure. In the end, the committee took no action, no outward action on Loretta Chaffell. But late in 1951, eight months after the hearing, she submitted her resignation from the welfare department. The Atlanta Constitution made an editorial comment. Her only guilt was, as far as we can determine, that of insisting on a sound child welfare program. The politicians accused Miss Chaffell of being in a red. Unable to find irregularities in her operation at the division, these politicians resorted to the tactic of making wild charges in order to discredit her as an individual. The methods used are a distasteful distortion of the democratic process. And a former president of the Georgia Bar Association spoke his mind. As a member of the Georgia Bar for more than 40 years, I've been watching for some time the increasing danger to personal liberty arising out of today's fears and theories. I've been concerned as to whether in our zeal for security, we would not run the risk of destroying personal liberty. The very heart of the democracy we are all trying to preserve. As I see it, the best defense against communism is a freedom and protection of the liberties of the individual citizen. And we must keep alive a respect for the rights of others. This respect is basic to our American way of life. And it demands that we never seek to destroy our neighbor and his reputation, simply because we hold a different opinion. An individual smeared in Georgia, property destroyed in Illinois, a veteran barred from buying a house in Massachusetts, a dead rat on a doorstep in California. The network of troublemaking runs coast to coast. The acts of the troublemakers are of infinite variety. Hard to believe. Hard to believe that in America, there are those who spend their time and their energy to divide our people, to spread fear and suspicion and hatred among our people, pin down the troublemakers, throw a revealing beam of light on the dark places their hate-filled minds inhabit, and reckon up the price we Americans pay for the divisions they cause among us. You have been listening to The Troublemakers, a special transcribed program based on material in the recently published book of the same name by Arnold Forster and Benjamin R. Epstein of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith. In the cast, Mr. and Mrs. Olsen were played by Odin Wilson and Betty Harmon. Arthur Seelan played the real estate agent. Admirant Gubitz was Kaplan. Robert Essen was heard as Reverend Dunn, and Marilyn Arms played Miss Chappell. Others in the cast were Jack Tureen, Jay Easton, Jimmy Randolph, Florence Marcus, and Alfred Israel. The narrator was Lloyd Moss. Sound effects by George Morrison and Carol Schnapp. Production assistant, Pat Mayer. For information about the book, The Troublemakers, contact the Anti-Defamation League, 212 Fifth Avenue, New York 10. This program was produced at Station WNYC. This is the municipal broadcasting system. .