This is Douglas Fairbank speaking. I've just returned from seven months in Europe. I spent a great deal of my time in England, but I also managed to get into France and Greece, Austria, Italy, Germany, and several other countries for quite extensive visits. Whenever possible, I went along with our local mission chiefs of care to deliver packages and to inspect our distribution centers. I have no words to tell you what these packages mean. I suppose there are no words that can describe the joy that comes into a child's eyes when a care package is opened at an orphanage and the first bar of chocolate is handed around. Since I've been back home, I've heard some Americans say that Europe doesn't need our help any longer. Well, I wish those people, and all of you, could have been with me at just one of the many orphanages I visited. You'd keep your contributions coming to care. This is Douglas Fairbank speaking. I've just returned from Europe. Of course, I was one of the lucky ones. Being an American, I had a few dollars to spend, and that makes all the difference. But I still say it's good to be home. My wife is even happier about it than I am. Living in Europe was not easy for her, nor for the children. We didn't do the usual tourist things all the time. We settled down for some seven months in a house which we rented. My wife queued up with all the other housewives to buy our food, and she never brought home very much. No one does. We managed, but I can't say that we suffered. But somehow the good things that we take for granted in our blessed abundance were at a premium and only available to those who could afford it. Most of the people of Europe are a lot worse off than we were. These are the people who still need our help. Help them, please, with a contribution to care. This is Melvin Douglas speaking. Imagine for a moment that the child who lives next door to you goes to bed every night hungry. Imagine that day by day you watch him grow thinner and weaker. Imagine meeting his mother and seeing her face as she too watches it happen and is helpless to stop it. What would you do? I ask that question for a good reason. I think I know what your answer would be. We in this country are proud and very thankful that such a thing can't happen here. But children in Europe and Asia, children who are our neighbors in a very true sense, are still hungry. They're the refugees, the orphans, the youngsters, and poor families where the father is unemployed. We can't let them starve. Help a neighbor's child tonight with a contribution to care. This is Melvin Douglas speaking. For over a year now, the eyes of the world have been on the new state of Israel. In this country, we've been particularly interested in the new nation that represents a dream come true for hundreds of thousands of people who've had no home for years. The people of Israel are pioneers in the same sense that we Americans were pioneers in our very recent past. We understand their pride, their sacrifices to build a country, their hard work, their willingness to stand on their own feet. They don't ask for charity. And yet a care package from America comes as the answer to a prayer. Care has two special food packages for Israel, one for adults and one for babies. Each one costs just $10 with a guarantee of delivery and with no duties charged against the receiver. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Jack Benny. And may I take a few seconds of your time to talk about food. Not the food that you're able to place before your families every day, but the food that families in Europe need so desperately. You have an opportunity through non-profit care to share with some of the world's unfortunates. With a $10 care food package, you personally can help feed a family of four for a month. Sugar, butter, meat, coffee, fats, all these hard-to-get food items which are a luxury abroad are included in a care package. For only $10, delivery guaranteed, you can send a package to Europe or Asia. You pick the spot. Care will deliver the package. If you can't spend $10 for a full package, send a contribution in any amount and care will distribute food for you where it is needed most. This is Uta Hagen speaking. Of all the countries in the world served today by care, the oldest and the youngest is Israel. It's old in a tradition dear to people of all religious faiths. It's young in new statehood and in the spirit of its people. The people of Israel have traveled a long road through the centuries with many hardships on the way. The end of the road isn't in sight yet. But in building for the future, they accept the sacrifices of today. They do not ask for charity. They ask for our understanding. A care food package sent in the spirit of understanding and as a contribution to the future will be a welcome gift for any family in Israel. Order one tonight for $10 by writing to care. This is Herbert Marshall speaking. The past decade in Europe and Asia has brought forth one of the greatest mass migrations in human history. Literally millions of people without homes, without possessions, have tramped the roads and crossed the fields seeking a new place to make a new life. Some of the fortunate ones have found a country to welcome them, the new state of Israel. But life in Israel is by no means easy. 100,000 people are still living in makeshift camps. Thousands more are in the burning desert trying to wring fertility from sand. Their job, everyone's job, is back-breaking, sometimes heartbreaking. If any one of the pioneers of Israel is a friend of yours or a relative of yours, I know you realise how much they welcome your help. Help them through care. This is Herbert Marshall speaking. It's been a long time since I lived in Britain. I was born there and brought up there. My memories of those early years are very pleasant ones, quite different from the memories of people who've lived in England for the past ten years. In this year of 1950, five years since the fighting stopped, the people of Britain have just enough to eat and just enough to wear. Just enough, no more than that. There is never enough for a little splurge for a holiday or a birthday. There's never even enough to invite a friend to dinner. Then, too, it's the same food week in and week out over and over again until you're sick of looking at it. That kind of grind has been going on for years now, too many years. That's one reason why the people of Britain, together with the people of so many other countries, are so grateful to you for your contributions to care. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Arnold speaking. These days, news from overseas no longer carries the excitement it did during the war years. The problems of Europe and Asia, we prefer to let the diplomats handle. But behind the news and behind the conferences of the officials of governments are the realities of the day-to-day struggles of men, women, and children. These are the people who face a continuous battle for adequate food and clothing, who could look forward only to austerity diets and tiny rations unless we, as individual Americans, help them with food and clothing packages. CARE, the non-profit relief agency, provides the channel for that kind of help. If you want to assist an individual, a child, or family that does not get into the news, but still faces hunger and hardship, you can do so through care. This is Art Linkletter speaking. I always tell you that people are funny, but I also know that people, and especially the American people, can be serious and generous when the occasion demands. And today I want to be serious about a serious problem, and I'm sure that you will respond generously, because I want to talk to you for a few seconds about food. The food that thousands of people don't have in Europe and Asia today, unless you help through the non-profit relief agency called CARE. And do you know that overseas today and for the past ten years, the great majority of people have been living on austerity diets and under rationing. That foods which we take for granted, like butter, meat, fats, and sugar, are such scarce items that those who can get them in CARE packages consider them a great luxury. CARE packages have been designed with the necessary diet supplements, and you can send your own friends and relatives CARE packages for only $10, or you can send a contribution in any amount to CARE. Hello there, this is Art Linkletter. Let me ask you a question. If somebody told you about a child who for ten years had been using every waking moment to find food to keep himself alive, would you want to help him? I know you would. Well, I can tell you about thousands of children in Europe and Asia who have been hungry for the past ten years. Most of these children have never even seen meat, sugar, butter, fats, or chocolate, unless they've been lucky enough to get a CARE food package from America. You could send them no better gift than a CARE package filled with the foods they so desperately need but have been without for so long. CARE's packages contain especially selected foods designed to meet the diet needs of hungry families and children. and you can help personally to bring smiles to wan faces because CARE packages are known throughout Europe and Asia and they're prized highly. CARE's packages are known as the food package This is Alfred Drake. The spring weather we're having is very hard on the people of Europe. Perhaps that sounds like a strange statement. After all, there's a rebirth of hope in the spring. Everything always seems brighter in the warm sunshine. But in Europe, this spring, the picture is not bright. The reason is that here in America we are forgetting about hunger overseas because it's spring. We're forgetting that people can be just as hungry in the sunshine as they are in the snow. And we should not forget, we must not, help them and keep on helping them through CARE. For $10, you can send the 22-pound CARE food package to friends, to relatives, to those in need. With a contribution of any amount, you can help send a CARE package. This is Robert Montgomery speaking. I'm here to comment on what I consider the biggest news story of our time. It's a simple story and I know you've heard it before. But the fact remains that our world is in serious trouble. It is getting worse instead of better as time goes on. It's getting worse because too many men, women and children are underfed, underclothed and without proper shelter. You can't expect people like that to live by high-minded principles, to cherish freedom and democracy, to help us build a world structure toward lasting peace. A man whose child is hungry will steal and even kill. When you lack the basic necessities of life, you're reduced to the code of the jungle. You know that. I know it. And we can do something about it, each of us. We can keep our contributions coming to CARE. C-A-R-E. This is Robert Montgomery speaking. I'd like to ask a question. Would you spend $10 for a book to save a child's life? Perhaps you will ask, why a book? Here's why. In Europe and Asia, millions of books and libraries and universities were destroyed during the war. In Italy alone, 250 libraries were devastated. In France, two and a half million volumes went up in flames. Among them were the scientific and professional books that engineers need to build factories, that farmers need to plant their crops, that doctors need to save lives. CARE, in cooperation with UNESCO, has a program to help rebuild those lost libraries. New books, the latest and most authoritative works on the subject, are sent at cost to the areas where they are needed most. Help today with your contribution to the CARE book program. This is Robert Montgomery speaking. Do you remember back before the war when we talked about one-third of a nation? One-third of our nation, the richest country in the world, was without enough food, clothing, and shelter. Now, today, we face a situation much more serious. More than one-half of the world is in the same condition. In terms of human life, in terms of children stunted and diseased, the situation is shocking. In terms of the future, it is dangerous. You know as well as I do that you can't have international friendship and world peace under these conditions. You can't have one world, half starved. Do your share in making the kind of world you want for your children. Send your contribution in any amount to CARE. C-A-R-E. This is Ralph Bellamy. I've seen a great many reports in the papers lately about the improvement of conditions abroad. Of course, those reports are true. But they don't tell the whole story. There's another side to that story in the files of CARE. For example, the population of Little Finland is four million. Of that four million, 50,000 are war orphans. They still need help. Greece has eight million people. 250,000 are orphans, 100,000 are homeless, and every single one is undernourished. In Israel, another 100,000 people are homeless, living in makeshift camps until the new nation can find a way of absorbing them. Yes, these are big numbers. They represent a need that's equally big. Help them now with a contribution to CARE. This is Ralph Bellamy. Tonight, I want to bring you a special message. It's a very simple one, but it comes from the hearts of thousands of men, women, and children in Europe and Asia. It's thank you. Thank you to all of you who are listening tonight for your contributions to CARE. Contributions which made it possible for CARE to send over nine million food and textile packages to areas of need overseas. Those packages have not only brought the necessities of life to people in devastated countries, but they've been ambassadors of goodwill, expressions of hope for the future, and a tangible evidence of our friendship. You've done an important job for our world. Thank you. And please don't stop now. This is Bob Hope. Sliding downhill doesn't take very long, does it? But getting back up the same hill takes much longer and is fatiguing in the process. This pretty much tells the story of Europe and Asia today. Destruction by enemy bombers was a matter of minutes, but putting things together again, factories and farms and people is a long, slow business. Most of the world is climbing back up that long hill. Progress is being made, but slowly. The people of Europe and Asia are doing their best, but without our help, they'll never make the top. Reconstruction requires the concerted energies of all of the people, and the greatest source of that energy is food. Thousands of people overseas today are still hungry, still undernourished after ten long years. You can help them personally through CARE. CARE is a non-profit organization which guarantees delivery of a wide assortment of food and textile packages. CARE's food packages include such scarce items as meat, sugar, coffee, fats, butter, etc. Send a CARE package today for ten dollars. This is Bob Hope. What does it take to make a friend? Well, think about it. Think about it in terms of your own good friends. Basically, it's consideration and understanding, isn't it? Having consideration for their problems, their welfare, their comfort. Understanding the other fellow's problems. That's what makes good human beings and good friends. Today, the people of Europe need some of that consideration and understanding because for the past ten years, and the situation hasn't changed much today, they have been undernourished and ill-clothed and too many of them are still hungry. It doesn't take much to extend your hand in friendship. You can do it through the non-profit service of CARE. You can make a new friend by sending a CARE package to a widow, an orphan, an aged person in Europe or Asia. The cost to you is ten dollars. The gain to you is a good friend. And if you can't send ten dollars, you can send a contribution in any amount and CARE will use it for general distribution where the need is greatest. This is Dennis Day, ladies and gentlemen. Listen to these words. Meat, sugar, butter, coffee. Commonplace everyday words to us, aren't they? But in many places today in Europe and Asia, and to millions of people, these words are rare. And when they are spoken, they are spoken wistfully. To thousands of small children, they are unknown words. To European housewives, they sound like unobtainable luxuries. It is true that for the past ten years, they've been virtually unobtainable, for in most countries in Europe and Asia, people are still living on austerity diets and under rationing. They look to us here in America to help them supplement their diets so that they can get the strength so necessary to carry on their job of reconstruction. And we can help, you and I personally, through CARE, CARE, the non-profit relief agency whose food packages sent by you are so eagerly awaited over there. A CARE standard food package containing meat, sugar, butter, and coffee costs only $10 and will feed someone for a month. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Dennis Day. You've read in your newspapers and heard over your radios that conditions in Europe and Asia are not good, that there is much reconstruction yet to be done before these countries can get on their feet again. But more important than cement, wood, and steel are the people of these countries. The reconstruction of a country devastated by war requires hard, back-breaking work by the people. And the energy to do that work comes from food. But in many countries of Europe and Asia, food is still scarce. Millions of men, women, and children are living under rationing and austerity diets. It is hard to work when you're hungry. These people look to us Americans for help. For food to supplement their diets. You can help them personally through care. A care food package contains all the necessary supplements to austerity diets. Meat, butter, fats, and the things that provide needed energy. Send a contribution to care today. Any amount will be welcome. This is Don DeFore. Since the war, all of us have heard and read about the needs of people in war-torn countries. From the many letters that individual Americans have received and from first-hand reports, we know that hunger and illness continue. However, very little has been told about the food and clothing problems of one of the special groups of people overseas. A group that is extremely hard-hit is the white-collar worker, the thousands of clerks, teachers, actors, technicians, and many more. Their salaries are small and have continued so during all the inflation and black market days. They have been unable to obtain the food they need, although their work requires much extra energy. It is this group that is especially hit with the illness that comes from steady hunger and malnutrition. The care parcel of 23 pounds of health-giving foods will supplement the diet of a white-collar worker and his family for a month. Help them now. This is Gene Raymond. This summer, many Americans will be visiting the war-torn countries of France, Germany, Poland, and others. Many of them will fly over the countrysides in airplanes. From the air, everything will look peaceful and serene. But if you were to visit one of these farmhouses, you'd find things different. In an eight-room dwelling would be four or five families with one bathroom, no hot water, and one kitchen for them all. In many farm communities, where you'd expect there would be plenty of food, instead you'd find people hungry. Much of the food that is grown will have to be sold to buy other necessities of life and to help feed people in the cities, for there simply is not enough to go around. A food or clothing package from non-profit care would be a tremendous help to one of these families. Help them now by sending a contribution in any amount to care. This is Gene Raymond. I want to bring you a word about care, the non-profit organization that enables you to help your friends, known and unknown, in Europe. Of course, all of us have troubles of our own and many worries, but in Europe, those personal troubles are so immediate, so seemingly impossible to solve without some help. There's worry about whether the children are getting enough to eat, there's the constant struggle for just a little fat, just a little meat, or some sweets for the children. The little things that make life enjoyable are completely out of reach. In Western Germany, refugees live in shabby camp shelters, from 10 to 13 million refugees, and little or no work for them. All of them have problems much greater than our own. You can help these people through care, with food packages and clothing. Thank you.