Good afternoon, fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens. In front of historic City Hall today, we have the school children's salute to I Am an American Day. And appropriate to that fact, students from George Washington High School will act as chairman and take over and present the regular order of program. And may we now present our student chairman, Mr. Alan Toller. Ladies and gentlemen, in honor of I Am an American Day, the school children of the City of New York, represented by the public and parochial schools, offer this program of music, songs, and recitation as their salute to this great patriotic demonstration. We begin the program with the Pledge of Allegiance and the Star Spangled Banner, in which I ask all of you to join me. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. By the University of other George Washington, the album shows the DVD related crime and Doesn't have aring with liberty, so the country he seems. Speaker 3 그때 pencils сорmentandeция CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS CHOIR SINGS and I am a student at George Washington High School. Before you are assembled boys and girls of all races, religions, and national backgrounds. But first of all, Americans. I'm proud of it. Because we are Americans and believe in everything that America stands for, we want to express to Mayor William O'Dwyer our heartfelt gratitude for the great I Am an American Day celebration. Which the City of New York will hold in Central Park this Sunday afternoon. Everyone within hearing of my voice should take the occasion of I Am an American Day to come to Central Park on Sunday and give solemn thanks that we are Americans and able to live our lives in the American way. It is in this spirit that the school children present this salute to I Am an American Day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We continue the program with a band selection, National Emblem by Dagley, played by the band of Beewitt Clinton High School. Here we are. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In celebration of I Am An American Day, the choral speech club of junior high school, 99, Manhattan presents a choral poem, I Am An American, written by the associate superintendent of school, Dr. Elias Lieberman. The drum and bugle corps of the guardian angel school, Manhattan, now entertains us with a musical medallies. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As the story opens, Mr. Gordon is speaking. I'm going to tell you a simple story. A story that's important to me because I played a partner. I think it'll be important to you too. Period. I was marking some English papers at home late one afternoon. And just as I was congratulating myself on working for once without any interruptions, the doorbells joined me with its work. Yes? Yes? Yes? Yes? Who is it? It's Mrs. Bergheim from down the hall, apartment 5C. Oh, yes. Just a moment, please. Oh, you are busy. I should not disturb you. Oh, that's quite all right. Well, if you're sure. Well, if you're sure. Mr. Gordon, I wonder if you... Well, you see, Mr. Bergheim and I, you're almost ready for the examination. The examination? The examination in court. What you call the hearing to become citizens of America. Our second papers are through and this day will be called through. Well, congratulations. That's fine. Yes, Mr. Gordon, but... But what? You want to become American citizens, don't you? Oh, yes, yes. We want more than anything else in the world to be American. But now, we're afraid that we're set wrong. Saying what wrong? You know, Mr. Gordon, at the hearing they ask us questions about your history, the government. We want so much, my husband and I, to get it right. So you thought maybe I... Maybe you can give us some messages. Well, of course, history isn't my subject. But I'll help you. I'll be glad to help you become American citizens. Well, my schedule was pretty crowded, as it was. But I managed to fit the Bergheim citizenship lessons into it. Somehow, I felt I couldn't refuse. They had been rather well-to-do back in Germany in the old days. Decent, respectable, and respected burgers. But suddenly, with the Third Reich, everything changed. The terror came. The tearing up of roots and bewildering, unbelievable circumstances. And then, finally, they managed somehow to come to our country with Peter, their only son. It was of him Mr. Bergheim was talking one afternoon during the lesson. Yeah, Mr. Gordon. Peter, he is in the army. You know what they call a G.I. Oh, he looks so good in his uniform. Does he not, Lisa? Very good, Carl. But we await from Mr. Gordon's house. Oh, no, Mr. Bergheim. I'd like to hear about Peter. Besides, I really think you know your lesson so well, you hardly need my help. Oh, you are kind to speak so. But we are not sure. Oh, no, Mr. Bergheim. You'll do fine. But just to make sure, suppose we go over some of these tracks again. Now, what do we call the American form of government? It is the democracy form. That's it. Only we say the democratic form of government. Or we say the United States is a democracy. A democracy is a government of the people, by the people, for the people. Yes, Mrs. Bergheim. Now, let's see. But what about the Constitution? What is that? A Constitution? Oh, the Constitution is the law of the land. And I studied. I think I know the beginning. The preamble? Yes, that is what it's called. I think I know it by heart. We, the people of the United States, in order to form a more perfect union, establish justice, ensure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare. And the people of the United States, in order to form a better place. Well, the lessons went on almost to the day of the big event. The naturalization hearing. Then came the day. I was at my desk late that afternoon, when the doorbell rang. Only not timidly this time, but with a loud triumphal ring. Yes? Yes, who is it? It's Lisa Bergheim. And Mr. Bergheim too, Lisa. Oh, don't forget, I'm here, just because you're up so much with excitement. Come in, come in. Mr. Gordon, Mr. Gordon. Yes, Mr. Bergheim, how did it go? Give Mr. Gordon the flowers, Lisa. Oh, yes. My husband and I, we wanted to have this bookcase. Fine, Mrs. Bergheim. What's this for? It's the examination, Mr. Gordon. We are Americans now. Then it's you. We are Americans. Then it's you, Mrs. Bergheim, and Mr. Bergheim, who should have the bouquet. So you are Americans now. We are. I mean, yes, Mr. Gordon. I was happy with the Bergheims, but then I suppose I might have forgotten about it. But there's a little bit more to the story. Because just a few days later, Mrs. Bergheim met me in the hall and told me, Oh no, Mrs. Bergheim. But yes, Mr. Gordon, it's true. My husband, Mr. Bergheim, he passed away last night. He passed away. I'm... I'm sorry to hear this, Mrs. Bergheim. But you... You know, I will always remember it. He was so happy the other day when George said in the court, and here is your... How do you call it? Your certificate of naturalization. Yes. I... I think I will always remember how my husband looked as he said to me. Now, Lisa. Now I am an American. In the country my death... But his name would eek She was all alone on making me cry. Your name would be the only time in the country to Oh, beautiful, oh, spacious God, for I am always afraid. Oh, purple mountain majesty, above the sweetest day. America, America, come take this grace on me. And from my boots, with the gold of gold, come see to shine his feet. Oh, beautiful, oh, beautiful, oh, beautiful, sweet, whose burning has been set. Of God, O'er for freedom be, the cross of the wilderness is. America, America, come and thine every cross. Thy land I know in heaven's cross, thy liberty is mine. America, America, America, come and thine every cross. O beautiful for heroes to deliver a raging cry. O modern, modern, modern, modern, modern, and modern life. America, America, make thy life so divine. Till all that there be nobleness and every gain divine. America, America, America, America. America, America, come and thine every cross. America, America, come and thine every cross. The beautiful, oh, great country That seems beyond the year the year I have a first year But in my human name America, America The shepherds' grace are clear I'll try to return the moon From sea to shining sea O'neina, we'll be here Markham's famous poem, Brotherhood, will now be presented by the Great Church School, Manhattan. Manhattan Of all things beautiful and good The kingliest is Brotherhood For it will bring again to earth the long lost policy and mirth And till it comes These men are slaves And travel downward To the dust of rain Clear the way then Clear the way Flying trees and kings have had their day Break the dead branches from the past Our hope is in the aftermath To this event the ages ran Make way for brotherhood Make way for men Make way for men It gives me pleasure to introduce at this time The general chairman of the I am an American day exercises The former police commissioner of the city of New York The honorable Arthur W. Wallander Chairman Deputy Mayor Bennett Ladies and gentlemen Children of the public and parochial schools I'm delighted to join you here today I think you'll all agree that we've had a very fine presentation of music, song and recitations by the children whom you've seen here today I think it's been an excellent presentation I think it's been an excellent presentation As a salute to the I am an American day ceremonies to be held This coming Sunday On the mall in Central Park I think a special word of praise is due to Mr. Mark Price for this fine arrangement Certainly has been splendid and what you're witnessing here today is real Americanism As chairman of the mayor's committee I want to invite you all to come to our celebration next Sunday 2 p.m. There you will see The oath of citizenship taken by our newly elected citizens Also you'll see the entire assemblage The entire assemblage Pledge allegiance to the flag and to the country You'll see celebrities at the stage, screen and radio People who you know and will be delighted to listen to They will all be there Mass bands will play for you The police, fire and sanitation bands You will also You will also Be confined to a setting that is just about as beautiful as I know of Which has been so well prepared by the park department And of course The policing will be second to none by it The best in the world The best in the world Please come out and I appeal to all of you to make this a banner year Or a banner day Of all the I'm an American days that we've had I appeal particularly to you folks and to the folks who are listening over WNYC And now It is my great pleasure and privilege To present a great man Our own John J. Bennett Deputy Mayor Commissioner Wallander Our own School children And fellow Americans all And fellow Americans all Unfortunately Mayor O'Dwyer has been detained by a very important city matter And is thus unable to be at this ceremony this morning I'm sure I need not tell you how disappointed the Mayor is Because certainly on a ceremony of this sort Which includes our school children he always wants to attend He sends you his deepest regrets at his inability to be here I am an American Those are the proudest words Which any citizen of America can utter One of the greatest privileges granted To any human being To say That I am an American I think that we very fittingly Set aside one day in the year To note the fact That we are Americans And further That we're very very proud of it Our four bears Came to this land To escape persecutions of many kinds Religious, social, and economic They came from all the nations of the world They brought to this country The cultures of their own land But they also brought with them Their hopes Their aspirations That here in America They could become free Free from prejudice Free from oppression They could find a haven of safety And a place where they could bring up their children To be citizens of the greatest nation in the world It's so fitting that children should be here today Calling the attention of our people of New York That next Sunday is I am an American day Because surely nobody could have listened to their singing this morning Or to their recitations Without knowing that they really meant That they too were proud of being an American Our nation is the greatest nation in the world And again I repeat that we're proud of it I only wish that the words and the songs of the children Spoken here today and spoken next Sunday at Central Park Could be heard by all of the children Of all of the nations of the world At this particular time Most of these children are living under conditions Which don't give them very much to hope for But if they could hear us here Give expressions to our hopes and our happinesses I am sure that their hope would be restored Down through the years Many other citizens of our nation have given their lives For America They were proud to die as Americans In the history of the world our forebears Have gone even to foreign shores To fight for the peace of the world So that the world could know the peace which we have here in America We are grateful that there is America We are grateful that we are Americans So today we publicly thank God for the fact that there is an America And thank God also the fact that we are privileged to be Americans This is a peaceful and a happy land We want it to stay that way We want it to be the beacon of hope for all the peoples of the world We want it also to be the example for all of the nations of the world So too may we say publicly today We are proud that we are Americans At the same time let us offer to God another prayer And that is that he will always make us feel happy Of that fact And that he will also give us the power To keep America great And also to give it to us That we may continue to be worthy Of the word American Mr. Bennett and Mr. Wallander On behalf of the city school children May I thank you for greeting us on this occasion We shall always remember this day Inspired by your words We shall do everything within our power To spread the gospel of Americanism We will close these exercises With Irving Berlin's God Bless America In this place We shall do everything within our nation We shall faire everything To怎樣 the vil Beautiful To the only land of salvationтапы parallels These ceremonies are now concluded. Thank you all for coming. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we brought you the ceremony here at the City Hall in the school children's participation in the great I Am an American Day program in which you will be the guest of the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, the members of his Cabinet, the Board of Estimates, the City Council, and all concerned with your government in asserting in this great government, the City of New York, the principles of our United States government, focused as it is in Washington, D.C., but which began just a few blocks below here at the corner of Nassau and Wall Street when George Washington took the oath of office about 160 years ago as President of the United States. So be up there at the Mall. There are thousands of seats. Come early because you'll get to preferential places by being early, and do your part in the I Am an American Day program. Thank you from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.