Good afternoon from one of the most marvelous spots anywhere in the world right now from the standpoint of sunshine, fresh air, and one of the most magnificent spectacles on one of the greatest stages anywhere in the world. On this three-mile stage here at Idlewild Airfield, while the eyes pick up the marvels of these planes, the various performances that the planes go through, proving their maneuverability, their adaptability, the helicopters, planes, all various types, jets and otherwise, the spectators also have a running picture of what is happening here, carried out by the expert pilots concerned with the various services, and they tell you in plain English what is happening, why it is happening, and who is doing it and why. This is a very marvelous spectacle, and we have all become very much air-minded while we've accumulated a wonderful vacation suntan out here at Idlewild. Now, we have a demonstration at this time with the Herald Tribune plane. The plane is flying somewhere in the vicinity now. We're going to ask Pilot Rondo to come over the field as often as he can during the course of this so that those here at Idlewild will see the plane we're demonstrating with. We're going to ask the audience to wave their handkerchiefs because it's very difficult to note hands at this distance, but the waving of the white handkerchiefs will take the form of applause. And wouldn't we ask you to applaud, Pilot Rondo is very glad indeed to know that we're aware here of what he's doing up there. Of course, he's listening. He hears everything we say, as you will over the loudspeakers here, everything that John Savage, our special events announcer from the plane, will say as well. And now, just to prove our demonstration, we're going to ask John Savage to come in from the Herald Tribune plane. Over. Hello, Tommy Cowan. This is John Savage in the co-pilot seat of our flying newsroom. And we're circling around to come in front of you right at the moment. We're behind you. You may be able to make our plane out. We're over at Jamaica Bay. We're going to be right back. First, though, before we start saying hello and complimenting you on that suntan you were talking about, we want to see how we're coming in. So over to you, Tommy. We'd like to say that aboard the plane, just to show you that WNYC is everywhere at the same time, John DeProspo Sr., twin brother of his brother Ronald, is aboard the plane. And John DeProspo, I mean John DeProspo Jr. is aboard the plane, twin brother of Ronald. And John DeProspo Sr., our executive officer, is a very interested spectator right here where these microphones are carrying the message. And we hope, uh, Signor DeProspo is listening at the home station. However, we're having a complete coverage at this time. And, uh, pilot Rondo has some guests aboard the plane. We're going to say, um, Rondo, if you'd like to have your guests come over to the field after, we'll send cars over to get them and get them a convenient placement here at the air show for the day. That's something they may look forward to. And, uh, John Savage is the master's ceremonies up there. If anyone would like to speak back and forth over the communications service and make a party out of it, we'll be very glad to accept the messages from the plane. Now, what observation have you got to make up there, John, in this wonderful sunlight and fresh air? Believe me, Tommy, it is a beautiful, sunshiny day today. The sun is, at the moment, over our right shoulder. We have, uh, Mr. William B. Howell, former state senator from New Jersey, in the plane today. And it is a sort of a party, not for pilot Rondo and myself, because we each have our wives along. But for everybody else, I think it is a party. Now, if you, in the grandstand down there, we'll look up. Perhaps you will see, to your right, our flying newsroom coming in. We should explain that this broadcast is being broadcast over station WNYC. But at the same time, it is also going through the public address system here at the exposition area at Idlewild Airport. We're coming in now at about 1,000 feet, which is not too high. You ought to be able to make it out very clearly now. And we're going at about 200 miles an hour. We can make out where Tommy Cowan is standing, and the WNYC broadcast booth is located. We can also make out the very gaily decorated tents and the various airplanes that are down there, and the crowd that has come out today to take in this wonderful World's Fair of the Air. Tommy, you see us down there okay? Over to you. I sure do. Can you see the handkerchiefs? We're all waving. And by the way, we have some wonderful music here by the mass bands, and we have the Department of Sanitation Band, Police and Fire Department, and the Glee Club. And just because they have no band, they're going to entune Alexander's Ragtime Band for the benefit of you folks in the plane. We're going to have a buzz bomb demonstration in just a few moments, too. How about it, Eddie? Come on in here. Come on in here. Alexander's Ragtime Band. Come on in here. Come on in here. It's the best band in the land. They can play the other ball like you have played the ball. So natural that you want to go to war. I am the bestest band. What am I, my honey land? Come on along. Come on along. Let me take you by the hand. To the man. To the man. Who's the leader of that band? And if you want to hear the Swanee River play in drink time. Come on in here. Come on in here. Come on in here. Come on in here. Alexander's Ragtime Band. Oh my honey. Oh my honey. Let's hurry and let's meander. Ain't you going? Ain't you going? To the leader man. Raggy leader man. Oh my honey. Oh my honey. Let me take you to Alexander's. Grand stand. Grand stand. Grand stand. Ain't you coming along. Get that beat. Shake your feet. Come on along. Come on along. Let me take you by the hand. Up to the man. Who's the leader of that Red Hot Band. And if you want to hear the Swanee River play in drink time. Come on in here. Come on in here. Alexander's Ragtime Band. Thank you very much Eddie Dillon and members of the Glee Club. Might we say that bandmasters LaBar, Bregel and Celebré in the mass bands of the city departments, fire, police and sanitation will be here all day on the mayor's day to keep this program enlivened with the best of music by three of the finest musical organizations anywhere in the world. And now I might say for a fine bunch of fellows that's the first time I've ever known you to be up in the air because the plane was picking up that vocal selection by the Glee Clubs. And now we're going to ask John Savage if he's got any ideas up there. Well Tommy since this is the mayor's day we'd like to say hello to Mayor O'Dwyer and greetings from the plane and from New York City's own station, WNYC. Now we also have our program director, George Wallach, up here who'd like to say hello. Tommy, I'd just like to say for the benefit of the people listening in, I know the people out here are going to get a terrific show today. For the benefit of the people listening in tomorrow, I understand the Army is going to come out with a very special demonstration. I understand they're going to fly by the field in some planes faster than the speed of sound. So the people listening in, I'm sure, will come out here tomorrow and see something they've never seen before and probably never will see again around these parts. Take it away, Tommy. Let's hear what you've got to say down there. However, George, your services are mixed. It's going to be the Navy that's going to do that. But Army or Navy, it's our armed services. And might I say that all week, the Army and the Navy has thoroughly rewarded anyone who came here to Idlewild with a wonderful exhibition by the pilots of those services. And here's the Herald Tribune playing over now again. Wave your handkerchief so they can see you because it's rather difficult to see hands. That's good. Fine. And now, Commander Capehart. I'm calling him Barney all the time and I almost forget prodigal because we ought to be a little bit formal. But Commander Capehart of the United States Navy has done so much to keep this air show tied together as an air expert. I leave it to him to mention the names of those who have helped out so wonderfully at the field and describe a little event that may come off in a few moments. There's a buzz bomb going off. We're a little bit worried about what it might do to microphones, but we'll take a chance. Commander Capehart, would you come over? Because the air wouldn't be complete without your wonderful description and voice to tell us about Idlewild. Commander Capehart. Thank you very much, Tommy. When it comes to mentioning names of those who have made this a great success, yours is at the top of the list. Yours and Cy Siegel of WNYC. I've been to many air shows, but this is the finest public address job I've ever seen. We've got quite a crowd here already. And in the sky, the Navy are putting their ships through some formation work. The great consolidated B-36 is down here to the right of the runway. It's a great day and a great show. I see already on the airport squadron leader Stacy, Commander Hopkins of the Royal Navy. And those of you who are coming out still, I'd like to tell you that the British Air Force, the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy, really put on a terrific show here. Here's Commander Hopkins coming now. I'd like to get him to say a few words to you. This is Commander Hopkins, the Royal Navy, whose teammates really thrill the groups here at the opening of Idlewild. Commander Hopkins. Thank you, Bonnie. The Royal Navy is very proud to have this opportunity of putting on a small demonstration for your benefit this afternoon. Our naval team came over in a Canadian aircraft carrier and came over specially for this Idlewild show. The team consists of an operational squadron, or rather part of an operational squadron, consisting of two Hornets and two Furies. And I hope you will enjoy the show this afternoon. Thank you very much. Thanks a lot, Commander Hopkins. Here on the stand at the present moment, we have Tom Compeer, the director of this great air show, whose vision placed on Idlewild, the greatest display of aviation and aeronautics New York, or any other city for that matter, has ever seen. Tom, come in and say a few words. Tell us what a great day this is. Thank you, Barney. This is a great day, and we figure that tomorrow will be great also, where the people of the city of New York will have an opportunity to see the frontline airplanes of the United States and Great Britain go through the most high-measured precision operations that ever has been presented anywhere in the world. Thanks a lot, Tom Compeer. And here's Tommy Cowan. Come in, Tommy. Great day for the Tommies. We'd like to say at this time that the Herald Tribune plane is flying around up there. We've taken a moment or two for a few polite prodigal ceremonials. And now, if you have anything up there of interest, John, why, just come in and tell us what's happening up there near the sun. We're getting the benefit of down here, the vitamin D, and the beautiful cool breeze that is sweeping over the field that takes any liability, whatever, out of any over-warm sun rays or anything like that, even though we're all tanning up. In fact, you can almost see the tan accumulating. So, come in, John Savage from the Herald Tribune plane. Over. Okay, Tommy. We were just flying over Rockaway Beach there, looking down at the thousands of people who have gone out swimming today in some really beautiful weather. And we'd like to take this opportunity to say to those of you who are seated at home and listening to this broadcast that you still have plenty of time to get down here to the International Airport at Idlewild and take in this greatest air show ever to open the greatest airport ever. It's a really beautiful day. The best weather we've had, really. We've been broadcasting from the plane every day. We've been able to. And the visibility is wonderful today. We can make out Manhattan Island, which is now just about ahead of us. And we can also see the Jamaica section here. And we're able to pick out that drive-in theater and aqueduct racetrack, which is now just below us. And the geometric patterns that the various housing developments form. It's a wonderful sight up here today. And it sort of gives you an idea, just a little idea, what air power really means. And in order to get the complete idea, I suggest you drop out here to the airport at Idlewild and take in this wonderful exposition. Now, Tommy, we've been talking to you from time to time here for quite a while, so we're going to get back on the ground and come over and see some of that air show we've been talking about. And I guess you will be there to describe it to us. Those of you folks who are around, I want you to go up and take a good look at Tommy Cowan's sunburn, because he looks as though he spent all summer out on the beach. And I know that when he goes in and asks for a vacation, in summer the boss is going to say, you've already had your vacation. And that's just about what covering this air exposition amounts to. Okay, Tommy, we'll see you over there in about 15 or 20 minutes ourselves. So, so long and over to you. Thank you very much, John Savage. And that was a splendid demonstration. Our compliments to Pilot Rondo in the splendid maneuvering that he's done all week in these demonstrations over the field, and to your own fine service and communication from the air to the ground. It doesn't mean so much to professionals, but to the ordinary layman watching a demonstration like this, it thoroughly clarifies the idea of communications, and the fact that a plane, all the time it is in the air, is constantly in touch with some point somewhere to carry a message of any kind that may be of service or requirement or even an emergency. And as we explained to you yesterday, you can pick up a telephone in the plane and call any number on land, much as you might do, from your desk to your home, and there's actual bell telephone service from that plane as well. A little requirement is necessary. There are just so many channels available for that, and the only liability there is that the channel must be available when you make the call. But we had an emergency yesterday whereby the pilot called from the plane, called up the master control of WNYC, and conversed so comfortably that the operator on duty at WNYC did not believe he was talking to an airplane in the air. He thought somebody was fooling him. And then, of course, the realization came to him that it was a fact, and we established communications on a formal basis. So that even an engineer can get puzzled and see the wonderment of modern communications and aviation. Now, tomorrow, of course, is the final day of the Idlewild Air Show, and you must avail yourselves, every one of you, of the opportunity to come out here. You'll be doing yourself a favor, not only intellectually, but from the standpoint of health. You'll understand all about planes. Commander Capehart and the pilots who are presented and introduced in the course of the program talk to you as thoroughly as they would to any of their commanding officers about the performance of the plane. You practically belong to the service, which is demonstrating at the time, because you receive the same information that any man at any desk in Washington, D.C., London, Paris, or any of the home offices of the governments participating at the invitation of Commissioner Whalen and the chairman. Now, it's very important that you come out here. There's nothing to worry about. The Flight Top restaurant has excellent food. You can have a whole dinner if you've missed anything at home. You can order anything you want to eat. All along the, I call it the midway, because we've taken on such a circus and carnival attitude here, with all the tents and the flags and the color and the wonderful planes that face the stage, the three-mile stage at Idlewild. And then, Commissioner Bernicke, your Department of Hospitals. If anyone says they don't feel well, Oh, I got a little headache. I don't think I'll go. Well, just get out of your car and stop in at the hospital tent. Dr. Jacobs of Bellevue has a staff there. He'll give you an aspirin to help you out in any way you like. And you can come over to your seat, thoroughly medicated and ready for a pleasant afternoon. The sunlight and fresh air will do the rest. The Department of Sanitation has done a wonderful housekeeping job. And as though that wasn't enough, the musical division, the sanitation band, is massing in with the fire department and police bands for the musical features of the program. When the mayor steps on this podium today at 2 o'clock for the formal ceremonies here of the mayor's day and introduces his guests, he'll realize that as Diamond Jim Brady said years ago, he never left New York either. He never owned a suitcase after he stopped being a traveling salesman because he said New York is the greatest resort in the world and above all the greatest summer resort. And if you can find anywhere in the world a more interesting, more intriguing place in New York City that has everything that any other place has so much better than they have it, why, just come out to Idlewild and I'll prove the point. Because if you want to know about aviation, a wonderful demonstration, a wonderful show, and the accuracy, the science that is involved, and yet we might even say the entertaining factors of this great scientific and technical specialty, why we might say that you'll respect more thoroughly the pilot and the plane after you've been here, and you'll know that this is the age of speed, and that speed through Idlewild will be devoted to the development of New York City through commerce and industry being one of the greatest and final arteries of traffic to carry commerce and industry both ways, import and export, because even while it's entertainment, it's one of the things that's going to give you jobs, add greatly to employment, demand, sales, commerce, and industry. And the mayor of the city of New York is anxious that U.S. citizens understand every factor and facet of your government and the requirement and the bloodstreams that keep that life of that government going. And commerce and industry are the veins and the arteries. And aviation is the greatest means of moving that commerce and industry, and Idlewild Airport will indeed be one of the greatest spots in the world to carry that maximum load at all times. It seems vast now. So did Floyd Bennettfield when we inaugurated it back in the early 20s, because we hadn't seen so much open space in a long time in a city of canyons and tall buildings. Floyd Bennettfield very soon shrunk to almost nothing. Then LaGuardia Field, which seemed to be vast in itself, that shrunk to nothing so that it could not handle the traffic. And now Idlewild, again in the borough of Queens, has developed its resources here for aviation, and your city station, WNYC, and its tremendous opportunity for communication to you, the people of the city of New York, will keep you thoroughly informed at all times of all developments in your city government, whether it's Idlewild or any other point of interest in your city. And now your most popular song over the weekend, the title is, Come Out to Idlewild. Every form of communication, every form of transportation is available to bring you from the inter-borough points here to Idlewild Airport with a maximum of speed, and you'll enjoy it thoroughly. And enjoy yourself and be proud that you're a citizen of greater New York, of greater city, which combined the five boroughs in 1898 and which is being celebrated in this vast show here at Idlewild, 1948. And a final word, Come Out to Idlewild. A wonderful show is in progress for this afternoon, an air show. The mayor will be on the air with his guests at 2 o'clock. At 2.30, the air spectacle begins, and from then on, your mind, your health, and every other feature will be intrigued with this wonderful show. Thank you for your very kind attention. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? We're back out here at Idlewild Airport where in a few moments the formal ceremonies having to do with Mayor's Day at the New York International Air Exposition will get underway. Mayor O'Dwyer, Mr. Whelan, the chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the celebration of the golden anniversary, and various and sundry distinguished guests have arrived. Most of them are already seated on the grandstand, the same grandstand that was used a week ago when this airport received the President of the United States and the Great Military Review took place. All of these guests have been seated, and in a few moments, the formal ceremonies will begin. Mr. Whelan has now come up on the podium, and our announcer, Tommy Cowan, is addressing the audience. Here now is Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests from foreign countries, members of the Board of Estimate, ladies and gentlemen, this is next to our last day, and we hope that the weather we are blessed with today will continue tomorrow so that we may be able to complete our program. The plan which we have followed for the past week, we have carried out despite the weather. But today, we have no fear that anything will happen to interfere in any way with our program. Today, as you know, is Mayor's Day, and the mayor invited the representatives of foreign governments to join him today in the air review of our, not only the air forces of our own nation, but of Great Britain and Canada. We are very happy to extend to you a very hearty welcome, and the mayor, in a few moments, will ask for the roll call, I'm sure, of all the countries here present. But before that, and before you hear the mayor, I should like to have the mass municipal bands representing the police department, fire department, sanitation department, and the police police club, to sing the national anthem. Watch him on a stage. O'er the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O'er the ramparts we watched, and the home of the brave. Ladies and gentlemen, we're waiting until the motor cars leave the strip in front of the boxes. The responsibility of the chief executive of the city of New York is probably greater individually than any other executive officer in the country. By that I mean that he is charged under the charter with direct responsibility. He can appoint and dismiss a cabinet at will without the help of the Senate or any other body. His responsibility is so fixed that no chief executive of the city of New York can survive unless he has great courage, great intelligence, and the ability to make decisions. A year and a half ago, Mayor O'Dwyer made the decision that New York would celebrate its 50 years of progress. Those 50 years have been golden years, and therefore he has asked the 8 million people of the city to pause long enough to take stock. And that stock is being taken at this very moment as far as the air power of the nation is concerned. And the fact that the city of New York, through its wisdom and great judgment, has provided an airport worthy of the progress of our nation and our great people. It's a pleasure for me to present to you his honor, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. Thank you. Grover Whalen, Mayor O'Dwyer, the distinguished Borough President of Queens, James A. Burke, distinguished Borough President of the Bronx, James A. Lyons, our distinguished friends representing the many nations that were called up here a short time ago, ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure for me to extend the cordial greetings of the city of New York, amplifying what our great mayor said a short time ago. True enough, as Grover Whalen pointed out, citywide officials do not represent any particular borough. That includes Queens County. The citywide officials, made up of the mayor of our city, our distinguished controller, and the president of the council represent all five boroughs within the greater city of New York. As a citywide official, therefore, I am happy to join with Mayor O'Dwyer in extending the cordial greetings of the city of New York to all of our friends, particularly the great nations represented at this air show today. It's a great pleasure for me to add my words of congratulations to Grover Whalen, who really conceived this show about a year and a half ago, and also to the courage, intelligence, ingenuity of our great mayor in sponsoring and carrying out the program suggested by Grover Whalen, and I'm happy to report that I and the other members of the Board of Estimate were very happy to go along with the mayor in this great program. This air show today, in my judgment, completely vindicates the judgment of our mayor in carrying out this program. So may I, once again, say thanks to all of you for cooperating with us today and for your attendance here. Thank you very much. We will turn the microphone over now to the air show. The microphones of your city station have carried the formal program here on Mayor O'Dwyer's Day at Idlewide Airport. And may we say you have plenty of time yet because it will be a magnificent air show from now until after 6 p.m. So you who have stayed back there in the boroughs, come on out to Idlewild, enjoy the sunshine and fresh air, and be the guests of Borough President Burke in this vast borough of Queens to enjoy this wonderful air show, one of the finest we've all discovered the borough of Queens through Idlewild. Poorly named because there hasn't been an idle moment and there will not be from now on as the commerce and industry of this great city flows through the veins and artery of New York's International Airport. The air show is ready. Commander Capehart takes over and introduces the various pilots who will discuss the tactics of the pilots in the air, the stout-hearted men that prove to us that aviation is a wonderful, new, and true science. And now we thank you for your kind attention, take leave with you from Idlewild as far as the radio is concerned, and Commander Capehart will take over and actuate the loudspeakers here so that Mayor O'Dwyer's guests will know everything that is happening. Commander Capehart. And so, ladies and gentlemen, the formal ceremonies inaugurating Mayor's Day here at the New York International Air Exposition at the New York International Airport come to an end. We'll be back here again tomorrow at approximately two o'clock to bring you the formal ceremonies celebrating Navy Day. And so, from Idlewild Airport, we take our leave and we return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.