Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Gilroy of the Department of Housing and Buildings. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. A while back, you reported on the activities of the Committee on Shelters and the progress of its work, Commissioner Gilroy. Will you tell our listeners just what your committee has done, is doing at the present time? Yes, Commissioner. While a vast amount of work has been done by the Committee on Shelters, the ultimate results will, I am sure, be impressive. Will you tell us in particular something about the matter of pedestrian shelters? Why, yes. Construction inspectors of the Department of Housing and Buildings were given instructions as to determining whether any space in the building visited would meet our minimum requirements for pedestrian shelter use. Several thousands of buildings throughout the five boroughs were visited and inspected, and many were found suitable for shelter use. Well, were all such suitable buildings designated as having shelter areas, and were signs erected thereon? No, Commissioner. We could not designate such buildings without the consents of their owners. Well, then roughly, how many pedestrian shelters have been designated and shelter signs erected by the police department, and that is at your suggestion and recommendation? Well, Commissioner, at present, there are approximately 322 selected, and 800 signs were erected, two or more signs being required for most shelters. Why did some owners or their agents withhold consents for the use of portions of their buildings for the shelter of persons caught out of doors, when and if an alarm should sound? In practically every instance, refusal was on reasons given. Owners in most of these cases are corporations represented by an agent who refused solely on the ground that he had legal advice that the owner might be liable for damages, in the event persons using the shelter met with accidents of any nature. While some are convinced otherwise, Mayor Impoletari has recommended legislation to provide exemption from liability of owners consenting to the use of their buildings as shelters. We've received numerous inquiries from occupants of private dwellings as to the location of public shelters to which the occupants may go when and if an alarm sounds. I guess we have much more to do in this respect before thoroughly, that is, before thorough knowledge is had by all, isn't that so? Well, yes. Yes, we've repeatedly stressed and continue to stress that occupants of private dwellings and other buildings are to remain undercover. Exposure out of doors is to be avoided. There is more danger in the street than in a building. Stay in your homes. Well, you know, I'd like to, Commissioner Gilroy, at this time, inform our listeners that the Office of Civil Defense will soon have available for distribution printed pamphlets of a detailed instructions with an illustration of how best to strengthen the portion of private home sellers to provide a good substantial family shelter. You and your committee, as a matter of fact, are responsible for this here plan, which I think is an excellent one. Incidentally, instructions for families and a drawing of a seller's shelter have appeared in the press. And, by the way, what has been done on the erection of special structures designed as public shelters? Well, Commissioner, the Committee on Shelters gave considerable thought as to the desirability of erecting buildings primarily to be used as public shelters. A subcommittee was appointed to study this problem and came through with a report and maps in which there indicated locations where it was practical to build public shelters. However, these locations were such that the distance of travel to them for the majority of persons in the area was so great that these people would have been exposed to far more danger in traveling in the open than if they stayed within their buildings. At the moment, the Committee on Shelters cannot justify the erection of specially constructed public bond shelters due to the tremendous cost and also the inability to provide for all the people. Well, Commissioner Gilroy, you've spoken of private homes recommending that occupants of such stay within their buildings. How about the people who are at work? I mean in factories and, well, they'd be in office buildings. What has been done for them? Why, Commissioner, the Committee on Shelters has described in considerable detail what should be done insofar as directing people within these buildings to the best protected areas in the buildings. The cooperation of various management groups has been obtained and the Police Department is instructing the designated persons in larger buildings as to their duties, not alone in the event of an alarm, but in the periodic drills which are highly desirable. You've spoken of shelters within buildings both for patients caught out of doors and also for occupants of buildings. What has been done to inform the responsible people as to what should be furnished in such protective areas to ensure greater safety to patients being sheltered? Well, that's a good question. Definite recommendations have been made after conferences with representatives of the departments of health, hospitals, police, and housing and buildings, and, of course, your staff. Such items as fire extinguishers, simple tools, water, first aid kits, battery-operated radios, electric lanterns or flashlights, etc., have been recommended. Well, who is to supply these items, Commissioner Gilroy? Well, in public shelters, all such equipment will be supplied by the Office of Civilian Defense, even where such public shelters are within privately owned buildings. However, in shelters privately set up and privately owned buildings, it will be up to the people, the building people, to furnish the equipment recommended. There is no legal obligation to furnish such equipment, but we do find most building owners, often tenants, are not only willing but anxious to meet the recommendations of your office. Your department inspectors have sought out buildings in which suitable public shelters can be provided. Have you done anything as to occupancies where special consideration might be needed, such as schools and institutions of various types? Definitely we have, Commissioner. Several months ago, we conferred with representatives of the public educational institutions, from elementary schools up to colleges, giving them the basis on which to judge what are suitable shelter areas, and later these areas were checked by inspectors of this department, and, insofar as elementary and high schools are concerned, by inspectors of the Department of Education. In addition, we also advised all associations having anything to do with schools that we were at their service. As a result, I believe there are no parochial schools and very few private schools which did not seek and get the advice of this department operating under standards set up by your office. The inspectors of this department are now starting on the inspection of all hospitals within the city, both public and private, of which there are somewhat less than 200. These inspections are being conducted in conjunction with the Department of Hospitals. We have also located shelter areas for several child-caring institutions and intend to cover them all. Incidentally, we are still available and will continue to be available to assist educational or other institutions seeking our advice. Also, places such as LaGuardia Field and the New York International Airfield have been visited to assist in the location of shelter areas. Well, Commissioner Gilroy, is your committee going to prepare any more drawings to clearly illustrate protective measures which may be taken by our people? Take, for instance, the old law tenement house. What are we doing about that? Well, I'm glad you asked that question, Commissioner, because we are now working on a drawing to clearly indicate means whereby the sellers of old law tenements and parts of other buildings of generally similar construction may be reasonably made as shelter areas. Whenever, in our opinion, the need arises for further illustration of recommended methods of protection, we'll prepare the necessary drawings which will be publicized in the usual manner through the public press and perhaps by printed pamphlets. Well, do you receive requests for approval of bomb shelters, that is, the designs, from builders of such structures? How's that worked out? Oh, yes, indeed we do. Several designs and descriptions of types of small shelters for homes have been submitted for comment or approval. We have not considered it desirable to approve any particular types of shelter. General principles have been established. However, the degree of resistance to a bomb blast which one should have will vary with the distance from the probable prime target area. Also, if one contemplates the building of a special shelter outside his home, the amount he is willing to spend will determine the degree of resistance he can get. In any event, before any structure may be built lawfully, the approval of the design must be obtained from the Department of Housing and Buildings. Well, have we not issued warnings as to the serious danger from flying objects and window glass and such, fragmentation, of course? Yes, indeed. But as well to repeat that warning again and again, flying glass is one of the greatest causes of casualties. Slithers of glass can penetrate fairly heavy clothing and minute particles can be embedded in the skin and flesh. Our advice is keep away from windows. Remove all loose objects from shelter areas, pictures, lamps, in fact, any article which a bomb blast might propel through the air. As you know, our home cellar shelter drawing indicates axe, fire extinguisher, et cetera, at or near the floor. These precautions will retain big dividends in reducing casualties. Their importance to all of us must not be minimized, though. It's one of those things we must all recognize to be done for our own safety. Yes, indeed. Has your committee, Commissioner Gilroy, developed any plans for shelters in those buildings which have no suitable areas available, such as industrial buildings without cellars and light construction nowhere. There's lots of glass built in around. What have you done about those? Why, we have one of our subcommittees made a thorough study of this problem and has drafted detailed recommendations for constructing suitable shelters either within or adjacent to such buildings. These shelters would be wholly or partly underground and construct as so as to provide shelter for those within from the effects of the bomb. Have you given any consideration in your recommendations for the construction of shelters as to whether the shelter will be near the bomb explosion or at a distance? In other words, do you recommend that shelters be constructed the same within what might be considered the target area as in the outlying areas of the city? What's your feeling on that? Well, for the present we have not differentiated. We're now recommending the best use of existing facilities. A thorough study has been made of strengthening shelters within buildings and final recommendations are nearly completed. Such construction is costly and structurally impossible in some buildings and it is expected that it will be confined to the locations where the hazard is assumed to be greatest, that is, within the range of the target areas. Has the Committee on Shelters given any thought as to whether shelters within buildings near or within the probable target area ought to be considered strengthened to a greater degree than those that are remotely located there? The subcommittee that handled that has considered that question. has concluded that while it is obvious that greater protection is desirable within target areas, it is not alone economically impractical in the vast majority of cases, but it is impractical from an engineering standpoint. The subcommittee report and the recommendations due at an early date will go into fuller details. Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Gail Roy. I'm sure that your treatment of the subject of shelters has been very illuminating to us all. It's nice to have you with us this evening. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to another in the important series of Reports on Civil Defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Gilroy of the Department of Housing and Buildings. We'd like to remind you that next Tuesday evening at this same time, the facilities of your city station will once again be devoted to another transcribed report on Civil Defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. COB