Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Dr. John F. Mahoney, Commissioner of Health. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. I have said it before, but I would like to repeat that this series of broadcasts in which key members of civil defense organizations and I discuss defense preparations and the progress made on those preparations are for the purpose of informing the public and not to arouse or frighten the public. We are bringing these talks to you, the listening public, so that you may know what has been accomplished and what is being planned in our program of civil defense. We are reporting on our work step by step. Several months ago, Dr. Mahoney gave us his first report on the work of the Emergency Public Health Division of the Civil Defense Organization. Now we ought to hear from him again on what his section of your civil defense organization has accomplished. Dr. Mahoney, will you take over now and tell us what you as Commissioner of Health and your department and as well as the Emergency Public Health Division of Civil Defense have accomplished since you reported to us the last time. Commissioner Wallander, I know that you understand, and I feel sure the public understands, that to be most effective, each section or unit of the civil defense organization must be fully coordinated with every other civil defense service within the city. For example, in case of an enemy attacked in our city, without adequate firefighting or rescuing service, many lives that could be saved would be lost because first aid and other medical services could not reach the injured. Without smooth and constant coordination between the health service and the transportation service, we would not be able to move casualties, first aid workers, medical personnel, and their supplies. Without emergency water and electricity provided by the engineering service, hospitals and first aid stations would be crippled and useless. Without the radiological detection service, which will be provided by the emergency public health division, under the leadership of the Department of Health, the fire, police, and rescue services could not function safely. Too much stress cannot be given to the importance of smooth and effective coordination. The first thing I had to report is that the Emergency Public Health Division is working in effective coordination with the other divisions of the civil defense organizations. We are working hand-in-hand with the Department of Hospitals and the Emergency Medical Division. The same thing is true of our work with the police department and all other civil defense divisions. Well, Doctor, I am certainly glad to hear that, and I am certain that information of this character will be reassuring to the public. Tell us just how your coordinated efforts are being carried on. As you know, sir, the basic function of the Department of Health is to prevent disease. Its main concerns are hygiene and sanitation. These functions of hygiene and sanitation require little additional training of the people in the health department, but to successfully meet disaster. We will need more people than we now have. And so part of our work is recruiting these people and giving them the necessary training. In addition to the normal functions of the health department, the Emergency Public Health Division is charged with the task of radiological detection, chemical and bacteriological detection, and for decontamination. These constitute new activities and responsibilities for the health department, and they require considerable training, organization, and planning. For instance, on radiological detection, we have had to learn about the problems involving radiological detection and to train our health department supervisory staff in these new techniques. Well, how did you go about learning these things and teaching them to your health department people, Doctor? Constructors have been mobilized to teach members of the Department of Health the basic principles of the new technique. and how to use the tools and instruments with which they will be required to work. Those who receive these instructions in turn acted as instructors for other groups. As you know, there will be teams charged with the task and responsibility of measuring the amount of radiation that is left should there be an atomic attack on our city. To do this job, we must have teams who understand how to handle and use the Geiger counter and other instruments for the measurement of radiation. A core of health department workers have received this fundamental training and, under our direction, similar training has been given to about 2,000 members of the police force. And they, all of them, both health departments and members of the police force, are passing their knowledge on to others. This is an example of the smooth and effective coordination the work of the medical emergency division and the police department on radiological detection training. That's all very interesting. Certainly, that's more reassurance that you're doing a fine job, Doctor. Uh, now, the medical emergency division of the Department of Hospitals also gave your division some new tasks. How about telling us of those new responsibilities and what you have done to meet them? We have taken over two aspects of the work of the medical emergency division. First, the training of professional and semi-professional groups in the medical aspects of atomic explosion. And second, securing and operating 400 first aid stations which are to be set up in the five boroughs. As part of the work in connection with the first aid station, early in January, the Department of Health began and is still carrying forward a comprehensive program for first aid instruction of all Department of Health employees. Working with the Red Cross, 64 physicians and nurses of the Department of Health staff are acting as first aid instructors. First aid classes have been organized in all district health centers of the Department of Health. and in our headquarters at 125 Worth Street and in our laboratory at the foot of East 15th Street. Last month, 46 standard Red Cross first aid courses have been completed. 13 are still in progress and 47 are scheduled to be given. Thus, a total of more than 3,000 health department employees have been or are being qualified to give first aid. In our health centers, in addition to training our own people, the first aid courses are available to members of the general public. And right here, I would like to appeal to the members of the public to go to the district health center nearest to their home and inquire in regard to volunteering for civil defense. You know, Commissioner Wallander, we not only accept volunteers at our district health centers, we also train them in first aid work. Volunteers are needed and the district health center nearest your home is a convenient place for anyone who is ready to volunteer. Well, I would like to join you, Dr. Mahoney, in urging folks to train out and volunteer for civil defense and also join you in training out that volunteers will find a warm welcome at any one of the health district centers of the Department of Health. You were telling us, Dr. Mahoney, about training for professional groups. Will you go on with that? Just a little more explanation? You realize, sir, that the medical aspects of atomic explosion is a new field to doctors and nurses and to other professional people. In cooperation with the State Department of Health, the New York State Medical Society, and the County Medical Society of the five boroughs. And with the help of the medical schools and hospitals, a short, very intensive course in this subject has been prepared. It has been given to more than 17,000 persons who are members of the various professions. This has been a tremendously important job, acquainting medical men and others with the basic facts on the medical aspects of atomic explosions. Now we have a considerable number of professional people who have a basic understanding of what they will be faced with and how to handle the situation should there be an enemy atomic attack on our city. I am sure, Commissioner Wallerner, that you realize that this is a major accomplishment, a big achievement of our Civil Defense Organization. Yes, I realize just what that means. A few months ago, there were very few professional people who knew about the basic problems that they would have to face and had, or should there be an atomic explosion today. As you say, we have a considerable number of people with that understanding. Certainly, this is a real achievement, and I know that you are going to carry such training to more professional people. You have also acquainted members of the general public with some of the basic facts on civil defense, haven't you, Doctor? We have, sir. Our district health officers organize meetings with the general public in their own district, and at these meetings, lectures and the film Pattern for Survival have been featured. As of two weeks ago, 644 such meetings have been held, and these meetings were attended by approximately 75,000 people. We have distributed literature on civil defense, and the Department of Health issued a special civil defense bulletin which has been distributed to about 30,000 physicians, dentists, and students in medical schools. Have you picked the sites for the first aid stations as yet, Doctor? I was just wondering about that, and I'd like to hear something about it. Because our district health officers are very thoroughly acquainted with their district, we have given to them the responsibility of locating the first aid stations. Three hundred and thirty-six first aid and training locations have been selected by the district health officers. Well, I think you pretty well covered first aid and the problems of first aid stations. Tell us about your work on radiological detection, Doctor Mahoney. The basic principles and procedures of defense against harmful radiation are not new. Physicians, medical technicians, and radiologists have used its safety techniques for years to protect themselves and their patients against radiation injuries. Radiological defense for civil defense purposes is the application of these same principles to the problem of protecting a much larger group of persons from the possible harmful effects of being exposed. Radiological defense has one fundamental purpose, to detect, measure, evaluate, and take proper action for protection against radiological hazards. As I told you, we have trained and are trained workers who will measure the radiological contamination. To summarize what the Emergency Public Health Division of the Civil Defense Organization has accomplished since the time of my last report, we are working in very close, hand-in-hand coordination with the other units of the Civil Defense System. We have trained in our training workers in the task of measuring radiation. We have given training on the medical aspects of atomic explosion to a large number of professional people, and our work with the Department of Hospitals and the Medical Emergency Division on first aid is going forward very satisfactorily. Well, Dr. Mahoney, I've been working very close with you. I know exactly the high type of work that you are doing. I think it should be gratifying to all of us to know that we have Dr. Mahoney at the head of this important public health division. Dr. Mahoney, it's been nice to be with you this evening. Thank you for your funded report. Thank you, sir. You've been listening to another in the important series of Reports on Civil Defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense organization with the heads of various city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Dr. John F. Mahoney, Commissioner of Health. Next Tuesday evening, at the same time, the facilities of your city station will once again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Um, um, um, um.