This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beast. President Truman, in his address, delivered at the United Nations cornerstone lane ceremonies on October 24th of this year, said, The United Nations is essentially an expression of the moral nature of man's aspiration. The Charter clearly shows our determination that international problems must be settled on a basis acceptable to the conscience of mankind. That is what I want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents, by transcription, Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. We approach 1950 and the second half of the 20th century. What do the next 50 years hold? Those of us who entered this world at the turn of the century have witnessed the most fantastic combination of tragedy and progress that the world has ever known. Is mankind basically wicked and bent upon his inevitable destruction? Or is he rather the victim of the tragedy of our century, in which he has to be able to adjust himself to scientific forces which seem to be let loose upon the world all at once? In the first half of this century, the nations fought two world wars. Not only did they kill millions of the best people, but they suffered an economic and moral devastation, so that great civilizations are imperiled. Europe, which had some sense of unity in the 19th century, and the father of our Western civilization, is reduced to bare existence. China, incapable of adjusting her way of life to the 20th century, has surrendered temporarily to communist materialism. The period of invention and scientific discovery, which began with the start of the 19th century, seems to have reached an acceleration of the opening of the second half of the 20th century, which leaves us stupefied. William Allen White, in a volume on the development of the western part of the United States, said that when our forefathers began their march westward after the Revolutionary War, their means of travel and communication were not much different from those which the children of Israel used in the great exodus centuries before. But within a period of a little over 100 years, there came steam with electricity to give us the basis of our modern travel and communication. In 1945, man made the most revolutionary discovery since the discovery of fire. He learned how to split the atom. And with this achievement came a knowledge of forces so terrible, that man holds in his hands the power of world suicide. And because some miserable men could not see how to use and control the forces of life, so that they might enjoy some of the good things for themselves, they developed a strange mass psychology, the very success of which means this extinction of the dignity of the individual. Truth, instead of being considered an absolute quality, becomes a means of propaganda. This psychology began with fascism. It reached its most hideous form in Nazism. It is with us today in a different form, called dialectic materialism. And so today, more millions of people than ever before are asking the question, shall our minds be enslaved? Shall our world as we know it be destroyed through an atomic war? Trigvali, the Secretary General of the United Nations, recently said, I believe that the rise of dependent peoples and the human rights movement will, in the long run, have far more significance and give rise to greater events in the second half of the 20th century than will the present ideological struggle. And it is with that statement of Trigvali's in mind, that I think we should marshal the constructive forces that are at our command. Over against the ideological tyranny that tonight enslaved several hundred million people, I would point to the movement for independence, which is felt throughout Asia and Africa. And I would point to the fact that over 50 nations have agreed to a Declaration of Human Rights, which they recognize as morally binding. Further, they are about to conclude the covenant of human rights, which will be legally binding upon a great part of the human race that will ratify it. The forces of tyranny are on the mark. But I would say that the brightest light in the sky comes from the aspirations for freedom, which are today touching more people than at any time in history. Today I would point to the United Nations, with pride, as being the moral and the physical barrier to war. The 111 resolutions which the last assembly of the United Nations passed, touching almost every phase of human existence, were a demonstration of the growth of world consciousness. Fifty-three members of the United Nations, in agreeing on the principles of peace, not only reaffirmed the principles of the Charter, but actually refined and added to the obligations contained therein. And when the members of the United Nations voted unanimously, carried forward the bold new program of economic assistance, and to facilitate the development of underdeveloped areas, they gave tangible recognition for the first time, not only of the right of all people to enjoy, but of the capacity to enjoy a greater degree of economic equality. Today a great body of people, recognizing that wars begin in the minds of men, are attempting to disarm the minds of men by the substitution of cooperation and understanding. What are the greatest problems of the future? Possibly I could mention three. Will the free peoples be able to maintain and extend the idea of the freedom of the individual, and the dignity of the human person? No matter how complex life may become, no matter how much the ears of many men may be assailed by propaganda, to unlimited and instantaneous means of communication, can man keep his mind essentially free? And in the second place, can man avoid war and the preparation for it? The fear of war warps the minds of the best people who love liberty. Expenditures for military preparedness take precedent over education. Lives become regimented. Science cannot be free. Can we maintain above the individual nation the rule of law, with sufficient moral and physical force, to maintain the supremacy of the law? And finally, can we enable all the people of the world to enjoy some of the decent economic standards, which we aspire to in the more prosperous countries? The population of the world is growing so rapidly, that the food supply must be doubled within the next 25 years, to avoid mass starvation. Over half of the people of the world are living in conditions of misery and poverty. Can we help these people enjoy better standards, without at the same time sacrificing ancient cultures, for what they will think of the Western brand of materialism? Ten years ago, shortly after the second world war began, a group of us under the chairmanship of James T. Schockwell organized the commission to study the organization of peace, which functions as the research and policy affiliate of the American Association for the United Nations. In its first report, written in the winter of 1939, we said something that is prophetic, and is as true today as it was then. I am rather proud of it, because I remember helping to write these particular paragraphs. As the frontier of continents has disappeared, its place has been taken by the frontier of science, and no one can foresee the effect which the indefinite extension of its borders will have upon mankind. But no matter how much his life will be changed by invention and discovery, man will continue to want from this world freedom, social justice, economic and political security. He wants a world in which human intelligence will organize and distribute the ample resources of nature, so that all can live abundantly. A world in which intelligence will be devoted to human progress rather than to destruction. A world in which a man's labor may be directed toward his own advancement. If we have the courage to lift our eyes above the agony of the moment, we may see a world in which the forces of applied science and the diffusion of knowledge offer to all men and nations a plane of living, a freedom of richness, spiritual, cultural and economic attainment that cannot be imagined at the present time. Peace under modern conditions cannot be a static condition of life achieved by the renunciation of war, nor a mere pious desire to live at peace. Peace must be a dynamic and continuous process for the achievement of freedom, justice, progress and security on a worldwide scale. Many problems can never be finally solved. They recur in different forms as eternally as life itself. The process of peace, however, should make possible ways of meeting these emerging problems on a plane higher than mass physical combat. And I'm very proud of that quotation. The United Nations was created to give expression to these ideas. And I believe that in the four years of its development, the United Nations has developed more rapidly than was anticipated at San Francisco. True, it has had problems that were not anticipated, such as atomic energy. It is also true that it has not been able to meet overall political problems, and because of the East-West ideological conflicts which increased after the war's end. But the broad aspirations of man for human rights, for better economic conditions, for the control of science and for political security, are all reckoned with in the development of the United Nations. If it fails, it will not be because of the structure, but because of the inability of people to make it work. If it succeeds, it will because the people of the government make it work. Those of us approaching middle age may live through a half of the 50 years remaining of the 20th century. There are those who are listening tonight who will be condemned or privileged, whichever way you look at it, to live through all the rest of the 20th century, unless, of course, life is extinguished before that time. I believe that mankind will win. I believe that the movement for human freedom with the dignity of the individual will grow, and that there will be permanent peace for the last half of our century, will be as glorious in spiritual and moral achievements as were the failures of the first half. I believe it because I believe that the Divine Creator who gave us the forces to destroy ourselves, gave us the capacity to use these forces to save ourselves. May I conclude this Christmas broadcast with an appeal for supportive organizations such as the American Association for the United Nations, who are trying in their way to build a more informed and militant public opinion? A few weeks ago I was in the studio of my friend Jean Carleau, overlooking the first United Nations building, nearing completion. The building rose white in its marble against the backdrop of a perfectly blue sky. And Carleau and I both said almost simultaneously that the building represents symbolical, the barrier to war and destruction. A few days later he called me and had a beautiful poster ready. The beautiful building in a crossfit, the rampart of peace. Join the watch and under that, join the American Association for the United Nations. These broadcasts this year have been made possible to the generosity of the National Broadcasting Company. The American Association for the United Nations has made it possible for us to conduct them and have the guests and the research at my command. Would you not like to organize a group in your community? Our association wants members and we want committees everywhere. If you are a doctor, would you like to be more informed on the progress of the health organization? Indeed the work of the United Nations touches every phase of human existence. And you will find something of your profession or interest in life focused at Lake Success. Would you like to help us in this effort? If so, we will tell you how if you will write to me at 45 East 65th Street, New York City. I repeat, 45 East 65th Street, New York City. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger. This has been another in NBC's New University of the Air program series, The UN Is My Beat, today transcribed with Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in United Nations affairs. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN Is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. 오늘 stolid perditioned by Captain Ampheus Co. This is NBC. This is NBC. Have a great week, Storm. This is NBC, the Numbers Encour conquer USA, and the supply of the United Nations. We about, though, not the United Nations is based now. We will continue to delight in two Uhm be our first taste in different fitness more interested in modern initiatives. And everybody will look forward to North Korea speak so we can look forward to the country as well. This is their special idea. And everybody will look forward to us. But. They will uit and Vienna Asia Tel coach Reidy response away. This has been accepted in the eight years before it all? Next. The USA State is studied Indigenous lift tend良 since separate opportunities