Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the role of the arts in therapy. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will analyze the conception that the arts have therapeutic values, and see how this works out in practice. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Vernon Clark, clinical psychologist. Marion Chase, dance therapist on the psychotherapy division of the St. Elizabeth Hospital, a federal mental hospital in Washington, D.C. George M. Cohen, instructor in art at Northwestern University. And Dr. Julian Pathman, chief clinical psychologist at the Veterans Hospital at Downey, Illinois, and lecturer in psychology at Northwestern University. I should say, Mr. Chase and gentlemen, that we raise our question today in connection with the meetings of the National Association for Music Therapy, now in session here in Chicago. Mr. This subject that we're about to discuss very clearly implies that the arts, that is music, dancing, painting, and the like, are useful in the treatment of certain kinds of disease, at least that they have certain purity powers or qualities. How would you describe the role of the arts in therapy, Dr. Patman? Well, I believe there would be a general agreement that art in and of itself is not a cure, in quotes, for any specific disease entity. And then we must also consider the various forms of therapy, such as the physical, pharmacological, and psychotherapy when we deal with the arts. Though there may be a difference of opinion, I believe that art in a general sense may serve as an adjunct or a subsidiary to more radical types of therapy. And in this case, we must make a distinction between people as people and people as patients. Now, I imagine that the role of the arts with people would be in the role of a prophylaxis. But in a more general sense, I would say that art stimulates activity as a creative endeavor. It may also serve as a diagnostic aid in certain types of illness. And it is a mode of self-expression for certain types of conflict, both conscious and unconscious. And I think it may also act as a mechanism for the release of emotional tension, and possibly in restoring aesthetic values in certain individuals. Now, these have different effects with different people, and I believe that all these various art forms do have a definite therapeutic effect. Well, now, to make this just a bit more specific, Clark, in what kinds of situations or cases can art be used as therapy? Well, Mr. McBurney, I would be at a loss, I think, to call to mind the type of case that could not be helped by some form of art therapy. It's very widely used with a great variety of cases. For example, it's frequently used with children in types of play therapy, and of course we use it extensively with neurotic and psychotic patients that we find making up the population of mental hospitals. I myself have seen it used and have helped use it with patients who have undergone serious brain surgery, and we need something to help them regain their psychomotor coordination as they recover from the operation. But I think in general we might say that it's especially good with patients who, for any reason, have difficulty in expressing themselves verbally, in our effort to take them over that relatively mute period when they're unable to bring out their feelings in any other way. And I also think we ought to remember that art can be a great help to the normal population, the population at large, usually in the form of self-help without a therapist, but nevertheless as a means of helping them integrate their own feelings. Well now we introduced you, Miss Chase, as a dance therapist. How do you use the dance and music in your program at St. Elizabeth's Hospital? I use it there with the people that Mr. Clark was speaking of particularly, who find it very, very difficult to externalize verbally any of their feelings. I use the dance movement to relate to a patient and to relate to many patients, forming groups of these people who are so far out of the picture socially at the moment, who have found other people very difficult to be with. And so through psychomotor tensions and the action that comes from them, exaggerate it into dance movement so that there can be a give and take on the non-verbal level, and so that they can feel comfortable with other people in rhythm. Well now, Cohen, does this kind of therapy we're discussing have applications, in your judgment, beyond the walls of a mental hospital? It's been suggested that it does. Well, we're primarily concerned with the role of therapy as a cure, and we assume that normal people don't need a cure. Nevertheless, we don't take the medicine away as the medicine of art because there has been a cure affected. It seems to me that to express, which seems to me to be the basis of art, is essentially healthy. And to give opportunity for expression is, well, a good thing. I might say that here I'm sort of an apologist for the arts. I'm just saying that art is a good thing as it is. That is to give it your experience form, to be able to project some feeling that you have into some tangible form, is essentially a good thing. And I think just making, just creating a work of art, is excellent. Well, I wonder if it wouldn't be as good approach as any in getting into this subject to talk just a bit about Miss Chase's experiences there, with this dance and music therapy. Precisely what are you trying to accomplish with that, with these mental patients? Precisely what I'm trying to accomplish is to meet a patient at the level where the patient is at the moment, whether overactive and very quick in changes of mood, very, feeling very aggressive, or whether the person is very removed. Different techniques are used for both. In moving in with the patient and dancing with the patient, who is expressing things in movement that he cannot express and is sometimes very frequently ashamed of, to feel another person expressing those same things gives him a feeling of being with someone else. On the contrary, someone who is so withdrawn that they are mute and motionless, to feel himself able to move with someone is sometimes a restful thing. The object is that. Uh, Miss Chase, I'm interested in what you said about the active patient. I don't know much about the dance therapy in itself as a form, but I wonder, I'd be interested in knowing, when a patient comes to you who is very excited, or who is literally dancing on his arrival at the hospital, but how do you handle that patient? I am told by the people on the ward, the nurses, I'm also told by the doctor at the head of the service, this person is already expressing in dance movement. Uh, can you quickly get to this person and move with them? Uh-huh. It is already ready. Well, that's interesting because I see here a coordination of dance with music in, uh, what you are doing, and also it brings up also his iso-principle here where the arts can be used, for example, if the patient is somewhat depressed, he will not play lively music, and you attempt to match, as I understand it, the mood of the patient and the mood of the music to get in greater, uh, let's say- Rapport? Rapport with them, yeah. It seems then that the essential here is the rapport, essentially communicating, that is, uh, you more or less enter the role of the patient, or you establish a kind of music that is in line with the patient's mood. Now, do you feel that this is the essential value, that is, communication alone, that is, that the patient can feel that his own attitude is being shared? Well, once a person can share an attitude, then the re-socialization process is starting. He can not only tolerate the therapist, but can also tolerate other people, his own peers, and then you can form, uh, rhythmic action in larger groups. He, he begins to feel himself as an entity that is acceptable. Uh, in answer to Dr. Pathman's question, when I go into a ward where people are feeling very depressed, I frequently am asked to start the program, because I will sit as quietly as the people on the ward, until someone suggests that it might be a good idea if I did dancing, since that was my object in coming. Do you have any evidence that you, that you're getting satisfactory results out of this kind of a program? I feel so myself, because when I am an award of very excited people, by the end of the session, people are, have spilled out their emotions in the action, and are now sitting quietly, wanting very quiet music, which is an unusual thing, I think, on a ward of that sort. When I'm on the ward where people are very depressed, I count it as a successful session, if people are in conversation, movement, and we have had some lively sessions with live, with a lot of laughter. Ms. Chase, you've indicated here that, uh, you start off with an original individual contact with the patient, and then proceed to a more group expression. Would you say that that is typical of dance therapy as a whole, or one of the aims of it, or description of the process? I would think in relating to someone who's had difficulty with people, it would be essential. Mm-hmm. Well now, um, I, I suspect, uh, that we're talking about a, a kind of therapy, a kind of program here, that's, uh, that's foreign to, to many of our listeners. And I'm anxious to get into the, the, uh, the basic principles or, or rationale underlying this, this whole, uh, whole business. Um, why do the arts have therapeutic value? Well, it seems to me that this is more or less stated at the outset. The arts, being primarily expressive, give the patient an opportunity to externalize some internal state. Now, I think that dancing and music, perhaps, apply to the social, socialization of this state. That is, you can share it with others. And, I think, with other arts, such as poetry, or, uh, painting, or doing sculpture, uh, you have, really, a more personal sort of thing. That is, you're externalizing something that's really much more personal. It doesn't take a social form. That is, it's not a, an established form. I may be wrong about this. It might be, Miss Chase, that you feel that dance does take a very individual form. However, in dance, in the group dancing, anyway, seems to me that you're more or less aligning yourself with a kind of group. Whereas, with painting, you align yourself to yourself. Although we're working in groups, there are many people in the session who are unable to be so close to the group that they can conform to the movement of the group. In that case, there is no coercion to, uh, cause the person to join the group. Uh, many times we'll have someone who prefers the remaining individual and expressing his own feelings, not the group feelings. In which case, there is, uh, no difference made. Often, we have a patient dancing in the middle of the group, or around the edges of the group. Uh, using the group as a focus, and, uh, being with them, and yet, remaining a part, partially. Well, now, you, you people are saying over and over again that you, you give these people an opportunity to express themselves. Uh, is it their failure to express themselves that, uh, that, uh, produces their difficulty? Is that the idea, Dr. Patton? Well, in many cases, many of the patients and people you work with have extreme difficulty in verbalizing the difficulty. You mean they can't talk? They can't talk, or they won't talk, but they're unable to talk for a multitude of reasons. However, the arts formed a wonderful example for allowing them to objectify, as it were, some of these inner feelings. And, of course, some various theories have been put out, such as sublimation, escape, that we all have within us, hostile impulses. We have monsters within us that we cannot speak or even fantasize about. And so, art gives us, then, a media for expression. Well, by doing that, though, then we could say that art therapy is, uh, very much like all types of therapy, insofar as its aims are concerned. We have used the word express over and over again. We've used the word communicate, which is related, of course, to sharing with others. And it seems to me that we have to think of art as very typical and sharing the same aims with other therapies, merely coming in, uh, at such time that other forms of therapy might not work. Well, it is interesting that art has gotten a reputation for being an escape, and here we're using it as an opposition to escape. It's interesting, too, in regard to what Dr. Patman said, that, uh, thirteen-year-old girl I know of, defined art as the beliefs and, uh, theories and activities of life, and also things that you're afraid to say. This is one of the things that she added on. She said it very well. Is that a good, is that a good definition? Uh, I think in this case it's a very good definition. That is, these are the things you're afraid to say. However, you don't realize you're saying them because you're putting them into some other form, and perhaps, eventually, you recognize that they're not afraid to say. You recognize that you have said them, but they are objectified, and so what? They're outside of you by that time. Uh, there's, uh, something else, uh, that I would like to mention here, and that is the monsters that Dr. Patman mentioned. I don't think that you can describe the particular, uh, tensions that are within you as a monster. You can't recognize it as a monster. But drawing, or painting, or sculpting, it seems to me, uh, can create monsters. Monsters that, uh, can be a little bit frightening, and that people don't like to exactly claim, but they can come out in these visual terms, whereas they can't come out in mobilization. And what's more, they can be studied. You used the word objectify a moment ago. And I think anything that has once become real, somehow, they're much less frightening. Uh, then? Just by the fact that it becomes real and objective. Often, in the dance movement, either with an individual or in the group, after having expressed these things with the entire body, the entire self, uh, the patient will then verbalize, these are my feelings. Hmm. Well, now, I don't wish to be too mundane about this in the presence of a group of artists here, but why wouldn't, uh, stamp collecting, sports, or even, uh, gardening have as much therapeutic value as art? You can express yourself, I take it, in a garden or in, uh, sports. What do you think about that? Well, I think you can express yourself in a garden, but I don't think we judge a person's gardening by the fruits of his garden. I don't think we judge it, well, we do judge it by the fruits of his garden, rather. And we don't judge it by, say, the way he holds his implements or the particular preferences of working habits that he has. Whereas preference, preference for a technique, preference for a symbol, preference for a structure, seems to me to be the essence of art. And it's through these preferences that we get to not only understand what a person has done, which may lead to diagnosis, but it's through the presentation of these preferences that the therapy can be worked out. Yes, I'm interested. I don't think we have to exclude stamp collecting or sports or gardening or any of those things from having a therapeutic role. Uh, they perhaps have a slightly different one. I'm quite sure that, uh, when we go to a ballet, we don't talk only about stamps. We can talk about going to the ballet and watching the dance. We can talk about people who go to art galleries and look at pictures. I think, uh, it's possibly, uh, temporarily a more passive form of participating. But I'm quite... I'm sorry. I often made the mistake when I was first working at the hospital of thinking that the passive participant was not really a participant. And would eventually, one day, when they became an active participant, say, I'm so glad you are with us today. At which point, uh, the remark would be made, don't you recognize me? I have been with you for three months. So the patient wasn't as passive as she seemed. As looked. Yes. And that brings up another important role in therapy, is through the active and passive participation. For in the passive method, of course, you have entirely different goals. Whereas, in the active type, you have, I think, a greater media for the thing we spoke about before, the self-expression, where the person can actually manipulate and do things in a more active sense. I wonder if the goals are different, Dr. Pathman. I was thinking that, uh... More limited goals, is what I would say. Well, perhaps not even more limited. We go to the ballet or to the art gallery and we see pictures. Now, on the hospital ward, whatever we do has a relatively immediate result. Or at least we hope it will. Uh, the effect of seeing a picture may not, uh, find any kind of expression for ten years. But I think it becomes an integrated part of the, uh, real experience of the person, and therefore has a therapeutic value. Well, how about these, uh, these, uh, people, Colin, who, uh, can't draw, paint, sing, or dance? Who have no aptitude for, for these arts you're discussing? Curse of the art teacher, huh? Let me say at the outset that there are no such people in my belief. Uh, you haven't met me, I'm afraid to... Oh yes, I have. Have you ever tried to draw? Um, no. I think the answer should be no. Well, I would question that if you think about it for a moment. Well, uh, Clark has pointed out that people who do handwriting have a certain linear gift. And, um, I think that drawing, people discover that they can draw, and my role as a teacher isn't to teach them to draw, but to let them know that they already can. This is a, a discovery that they have to make, not that I make. And, uh, talent, the idea of talent, can keep more people from, uh, participating in this therapy, than it can bring people into them. People feel that they have to have some special idea about, uh, some special gift for making things, uh, in other words, they have to be a great artist rather than just being an expressive artist. I think a similar, uh, situation would exist in literature if people felt they couldn't write expressive letters if they couldn't write a great novel. No, I don't think that we're looking for great novels or great paintings. We're looking for expression. Well, I think I would agree. I was about to just say that, as therapists, one isn't interested in the craftsmanship of the media, but rather in what personal meanings it may have for the person and his ability to. Uh, I wonder if I might try to generalize a little bit on Mr. Coyne's point, uh, the sort of thing he hears from his students, of course, the, I can't draw, I can't paint, uh, sort of thing, uh, really, a therapist would call resistance. And I think we have to recognize that we also, as art therapists, face a great deal of resistance in many of our patients, which simply has to be worked through. There, it's, it's unfortunate that the arts have been regarded as something so special in our culture, that people have been frightened away by this word talent, or this notion that you have to be particularly gifted. But I think the art teacher and the therapist alike have to be prepared to work through the resistance that we're going to find, whether it's at a social level or whether it's the level of mental disease. Well, Clark, uh, you're quite right in saying that there's resistance to art. I think the artist, unfortunately, maybe because of this special gift that he's supposed to have, is regarded as somewhat quite separate. He's regarded as a kind of curious, detached individual who doesn't quite belong to society, but who must be approached with a kind of uncanny attitude. And I think that there's almost a stigma to, uh, wanting to make a drawing, or wanting to dance, or, uh, wanting to play some music, as you say. And people do it secretly on a consummate. Yeah. They're almost ashamed of it. Uh-huh. In other societies, this isn't always so. I think we can always learn from other societies. In, uh, some, uh, cultures, the artist is looked upon as the very center of the culture. He's a kind of soul maker. He gives tangible existence to some amorphous idea, an idea of, uh, of an ancestor, the idea of a god. And it is the artist that gives it form. Now, what we're looking for is form given to some intangible feeling, some sensation. Of course, the very fact that this attitude toward art does exist in our culture, unfortunate as it may be in your terms, it seems, it seems to me, would impose, uh, considerable difficulties on the kind of program you're talking about. Well, I would say that, uh, this is the broader application of therapy, not only to the individual patient, but to society. I very frequently run across the statement of a person who has been working either in painting, or in the dance, or in music, saying, I had to come to a hospital to eventually do the thing I wanted to do all of the time. Yes, yes. Which is quite a horrible thing to have to face as far as our culture has been concerned. That's right. Well, now, I, I would think that the, well, I won't phrase my question that way, it's loaded. Uh, to, to what extent would the effects of this kind of, of program be, uh, temporary and, and, and, uh, transient? Do these, uh, values that you impute to, to this kind of therapy, uh, last? Do they stick, uh, with your patients, do you think, Miss Chase? Yes, I do, very much. I do think it's very wise to have a doctor able to discuss the problems, but with the number of mental patients that we have, and the small number of doctors, I think, uh, the re-socializing is very important. And I think once a person can begin to feel himself express something, then he can tolerate other people, and at least in that area of re-socialization, he can begin to meet society again. And I think it does last. And the question there, uh, becomes, how far will society go to be willing to cooperate with the cure that you've already started to make in the mental hospital? That is unfortunately, uh, sadly lacking. Well, I had in mind something which is, of course, remote, which I have strong feelings about, and that is the role in our culture. For example, I feel that in our curriculum in the schools, that the children, by working with the various art media, the dance, and music, and painting, get a feel of the culture, and they can express a great deal of themselves, both as therapy for themselves, and understanding the cultures of other individuals. Now, if we can do that, we are accomplishing one of the aims of therapy, which is in a form of tolerance and of understanding. I'm glad you mentioned children, Dr. Pathman. I think it answers a lot of our question. I just want to put in here that if we watch, we find that all children draw without exception. If they've got hands, they draw. And they stop when they're about nine years old in our culture. There must be a reason for that. Uh, I think, too, that you mentioned knowing other cultures. I think knowing our own is very important, too. In fact, if the role of psychotherapy is a kind of self-awareness in its broadest terms, it's an understanding not only of our self, but our environment. And I think through even the passive appreciation of a work of art, we can get some better knowledge of our own culture. All children dance, too. You mentioned that they all paint. I'm sorry, Anthony. They all take activity in all the arts, actually. And it's at the age of eight or nine that they stop those, too. And suddenly become embarrassed, yes. There's sort of a stigma, isn't there, to do artistic types of work in our culture. But there's one good thing that reassures us in this sense. When we ask a patient to participate in art therapy, we are not asking him to do something strange, but something that he has done and enjoyed during his formative years. But don't you have to, at some point in this therapy, analyze this experience for the patient? Translate it into some kind of a construction or interpretation that he can understand? I don't think that's necessary. When the patient is ready to verbalize and analyze it, he will speak of it himself often. And while dancing, he will speak of, this means that I feel so-and-so. The doctor should handle the actual discussion. I remain as an art therapist. But you say the doctor should handle it. Somebody should handle it. If possible. Well, then there are two roles here for therapy. There is the working out of certain tensions through the release of art. On the one hand, this is the therapy. And on the other hand, it can provide a springboard for diagnosis. So this too is a secondary use of therapy. I should also like to point out a danger in the idea of art as catharsis for feelings. Because if one starts using it as an expression for catharting and getting rid of tensions, it draws the problem away from the actual one that exists. And which another form might be well suited to get at it. I have in mind any mechanism of release, alcoholism or anything else. But art is a more socially acceptable one. I'd like to go back to Mr. McBurney's question about, is it necessary to analyze and interpret? And I agree with Ms. Chase that it's nice to be able to, either then or the doctor later. But I think we ought to remember that interpretation and intellectual understanding is a tool of therapy. It's not an aim. If our art therapy can actually bring about some kind of re-socialization, I don't think it matters much whether the patient knows that. I think his ability to relate to others is what we're working for so that interpretation may or may not happen according to whether it's needed as a tool. Well, this presentation of tools can be very misleading. I don't think that it's the duty of the therapist to present techniques as such. That is, the technique is merely a sort of a proving ground for this expression. And once the tool becomes more important than the expression, you really have a kind of fine art which is hardly therapeutic at all, but merely the demonstration of a technique. But, Cohen, wouldn't you view this whole field we're discussing as adjunctive, secondary, ancillary to the primary purpose of art, which is essentially an aesthetic field, isn't it? Well, the notion of aesthetics changes a good deal. I should say that respected artists today provide a kind of therapy for society. I'm sorry, Ms. Chase and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Role of the Arts in Therapy. We want to thank our guests for today, Vernon Clark, clinical psychologist from Evanston, Illinois, George Cohen, instructor in art at Northwestern University, Ms. Marion Chase, dance therapist at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Washington, D.C., and Julian Pathman, chief clinical psychologist at Downey Veterans Hospital, Downey, Illinois. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast. Copies are available for ten cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Each year at this time, Northwestern University salutes thousands of young high school debaters with a reviewing stand discussion of their annual debate topic. Next Sunday, we explore this year's high school debate question. Should all American citizens be subject to conscription for essential service in time of war? We will hear from Lawrence Fenland, past Illinois State Commander of the American Legion, Frederick Harbison from the Industrial Relations Center at the University of Chicago, and James B. Carey, Secretary Treasurer of the CIO in Washington, D.C. We hope you will join us next week for a discussion of universal conscription. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. And orderly chin- pajamas and supported a友's feature of a hot shop and transport due to the securityism of the town of Bel setzen.