It's a privilege for Station WPI to introduce as a public service a new television program which we're sure will prove of interest and value to New Yorkers. Called at the Mayor's Desk, its chief star is the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of New York City. The other members of the cast belong to the Mayor's official family, the group which manages, on your behalf, the government of New York City. Every Thursday evening at 8 o'clock, you will have only to tune in on Channel 11, WPIX, the television station of the New York News, to bring the Mayor and his official family into your home. For a half hour, you can see and hear how they go about their work, what public business they discuss, and what they all look like. At the Mayor's Desk comes to you directly from New York City Hall. It offers, to the best of our knowledge, the most intimate close-up view of public officials at work that has been presented anywhere in the world. Mayor O'Dwyer, incidentally, has long been keenly interested in the development of television and has repeatedly offered his full cooperation in making New York City the video capital of the United States. We're especially gratified that the Mayor has chosen tonight for the opening of this series, since this is the second anniversary of the day WPIX first went on the air. And now, this is your program, Mr. Mayor. I will watch it from the sidelines with interest. Thank you, Mr. Flynn. We're really grateful to WPIX and to you for making it possible for us to give this service to the people of the city. This is not the first time that you've done a great service for the people of the city. On your second anniversary, PIX, congratulations. Now, neighbors, we're going to let you look in at a meeting of top flight officials of this administration talking about problems that affect you and your families during the hot weather. Now, all year long, you have to do things that are all year round services for the people to make this city a livable place. Then, in season, something special has to be done. We're now coming into the warm weather. You're thinking already of going to Coney Island or Rockaway or some of the beaches or going out into the parks. And this is a good time for you to listen in while we talk about what has been done and what still remains to be done to make this city a better place. Before we do that, I want to introduce to you Commissioner Robert Moses, who for years and years has devoted himself to this work and many, many other planning jobs. Also, the health commissioner, Dr. John H. Mahoney. Also, the deputy mayor, Mr. William Reed. And also, the commissioner of public works, Frederick H. Sir Mullen. These four men have a great deal to do with making this hot weather period comfortable for you. Dr. Mahoney, hot weather does, doesn't it, create conditions that makes it hard for the people in crowded tenements especially and all over the city as far as that goes. Makes it hard for them during the summer months. There is no question about that, Merrill Dwyer. And that is why we watch the facilities, the bathing and recreation facilities of the city rather more closely during the summer months than during the rest of the year. How does it affect the food? The food consumed in our recreation areas on a hot summer day amounts to a staggering total of ice cream, frozen desserts, custards, and non-alcoholic beverages. Could that be injurious to the health of the city if it isn't watched carefully? Ah, there could be a tremendous source of spread of gastrointestinal diseases if they were not carefully safeguarded. The safeguarding of the milk supply, of course, begins on the milkshed up in the country. It is scrutinized by inspectors of your department there, at the county collecting stations, at the processing stations in the city. You've got a regular staff who have been up there all the time in the sheds watching the milk supply, haven't you? Every day. That goes on the year-round, but it is emphasized during the summer months. Yes. Then when you come to iceboxes, restaurants, and all that kind of stations, that's important too. Very. We have a corps of inspectors whose duty it is to canvas the various food dispensing establishments in the beaches, and to, through education, coercion, and official pressure, to induce the dealers to dispense the products, which we have placed in their hands in a very sound condition, and not to allow a gap in the sanitary routine to occur through their carelessness. Well, hot weather is pretty hard on children in the city. There used to be one of our greatest dreads. Forty years ago, the diarrheal diseases of infancy and childhood were a terrible source of concern to parents, physicians, and public health officers. Thanks to sanitation, this condition has largely passed away. There is nothing more dramatic in modern medicine than the decline in the death of infants due to gastrointestinal diseases during the summer months. Now, when you come to the living quarters, especially in crowded sections, where you have huge tenements and narrow little streets, and old-fashioned homes that haven't yet been hit with the iron ball, we're waiting to get at them. That includes a large amount of our men, women, and children, does it, in the city. As a principle, wouldn't you say that the great outdoors is about the only answer we can give to them to make the city comfortable? I'm very sure of that. Probably one of the greatest sociological factors that a city of this size would have to deal with during the summer. And that would include, we'll say, in three major categories, parks, playgrounds, and beaches. Yes, sir. And beaches. Bob Moses, you've been in charge of parks for a long, long time, haven't you? Sixteen years in the city and 26 in the state. Well, before you took that over, here in the city, we had a park commissioner in every borough, didn't we? That's right. And a park board? That's right. Then, back around 1934, you took over the entire system. That's right. Do you coordinate, too, with outside of the city? Yes. So the suburban and upstate park work. It's all part of one system so far as the parks and parkways are concerned. Well, of course, today you'd have to have that because you wouldn't have park room enough, would you, for all of our people within the city? No. Generally speaking, the idea in the city is to provide recreation for the people who can't get far away from their homes, near their homes, playgrounds in the first instance, and then parks that are not too far away. Now, people who can get away for half a day or a whole day or can get away for longer periods for camping, they go into the state park system. They have to go into the state park system because we can't, we haven't got enough acreage within the city to take care of them. Well, you've done a lot of playgrounds in the city, haven't you? Yes, we have five times as many playgrounds today as we had in 1934. Five times as many as in 1934? Five times as many playgrounds and five times as many facilities in the playground. And you have quite a few on the planning board, too, haven't you? Yes, we have 60 for which we have the land and the plans, but as yet no money for construction. And they're all in congested areas. They ought to be built as soon as possible. Well, we're getting around to them pretty quickly now. How about the beaches, Bob? Well, as far as the beaches are concerned, we're, uh, they're inadequate. And, uh, but I think they will be adequate when we, uh, get rid of the sewage pollution and, uh, fill up the areas that are now being reclaimed with garbage and ashes pending the building of incinerators to, uh, uh, burn up those products. That pollution question, that brings up something. Uh, Dr. Mahoney, you've been making tests of these waters, uh, frequently, haven't you? Yes, sir. Bating beach waters, where the people go in to bathe. Uh, you've tested them, haven't you? We routinely sample 80 different places. How do you do that? Do you just send someone down there and test them? It is quite an elaborate technique. The collecting of the sample is enormously important. The, uh, preparation of the container is essential. And then the sample is brought to the laboratory at the foot of 16th Street, where it is subjected to the usual type of chemical and bacteriological analysis. What have you found in that examination about the waters that our people have to live in? Are they safe? The, uh... We must say yes. They are safe. Well, what you, what you mean is that they are polluted. They are polluted. We must. And what you mean, I suppose, is that they're not going to be safe too long unless something is done about them. That is exactly the point. We must frankly admit, unless we are remiss, that our beach, beaches are polluted to a certain degree. They have been that way for some time. It's a very important thing for us to know that they are polluted. Because if they're polluted, there's no way out of it. We have to just get in there and do something about it. A polluted beach can do a lot of harm to the health of the people that bathe there, can't it? If it isn't, carefully watch. If it gets beyond a certain point. Well, all of our beaches, you told me once or twice, are reaching that point. We're reaching that point. Pretty close to it. We are beginning, we are becoming very apprehensive that the degree of pollution may be approaching the danger point and may lead to drastic action. It hasn't up to the moment. Allow so that there'll be no mistake about it, John. Every family in this city contributes to that pollution, don't they? Everyone. It's all raw sewage that goes in there with the exception of a small portion of it that's already treated. And there's only one thing that can clean that harbor. One only? Just one thing. Treatment. Treatment by sewage disposal plants. Apparently right. That, uh, Fred Zamulian brings you into this question. You've had the job of planning for these plants, haven't you? I have, Mr. Mayor, and it's a big one. Uh, could you tell us, uh, is there any way that you can tell us so that we'd see it clearly, uh, the number of plants already in operation, the number of plants that you are actually constructing, and the number that must be constructed if our beaches are going to be absolutely clean? Well, there are, at the present time, there are 13 sewage disposal plants in operation. These are of various kinds. And in each plant, uh, laboratory testing goes on continuously. Uh, we have in each plant giant diesel engines, which are driven with methane gas from the sewage. And these, uh, generators, uh, drive large compressors, which, uh, form, uh, make compressed air for our aeration tanks. In the aeration tanks, the, uh, air is mixed with liquid sewage. And that's what purifies it. It causes a turbulence that distributes oxygen to the water. As Dr. Mahoney said, we are, uh, we must clean up the pollution in the bay, in the harbors, in the waters around New York. Uh, what he really means is that we must not put any more pollution in it. Nature clears up the pollution in the bay that's in there now. But we can't put any more in it. Well, if you put too much of it in all at one time, you've got a dirty beach. As soon as we stop putting pollution into the waters around New York City, our sewage disposal plants, when they are constructed, will take care of all the sewage. And no more pollution will go into the bay. You've got 13 plants working now. We have 13 plants in operation at the present time. All right. How many plants are under construction? Uh, at the present time, we have two large plants under construction. Owl's Head, with 21 million dollars in cost. That's the one over here in Brooklyn? That's one in Bay Ridge and it takes in the area of Brooklyn, all the way from Gravesend Bay to Gowanus Canal. Yeah. Uh, that, uh, will serve 1,200,000 people. And it, uh, it will treat 120 million gallons of sewage per day. Yeah. It is planned to treat in the future 160 million as population increases in that area. Our second big plant now in construction is the, uh, Hunts Point plant in the Bronx. That's the one we opened up last October. That's, uh, we broke ground for it in October. That's right. And it's very well in cause of construction. We'll be laying cornerstone. It will take care of not only the Bronx, but the opposite Queens beaches, won't it? Uh, it, it, it, uh, cleans the, uh, cleans the waters adjacent to the Bronx, which is also adjacent to Queens. Yeah, that's right. And as we all, so, already have Talisman Island in Queens, uh, we have the waters taken care of on that side of it. By the way, uh, you remember one time we went over, the Board of Estimate went over, Bob, to Talisman Island, uh, sewer disposal plant? I think they said at that time that that, uh, took care of about 150,000 persons. And I was astonished to find that after that sewerage, when all through the plant was aerated, was treated, that just as it flowed out into the, into the bay, uh, the man in charge came down and took a glass and held up a glass of that water and it was actually looked like pure water. And, uh, I asked him the question, is it pure? And he said, I'll show you how pure it is, and he drank it. Would that mean that, uh, when we have all of our sewage disposal plants built in an operation, that every bit of sewage is treated in such manner in this city that when it goes into the bay it's pure water? It is pure in, in, in, in, in regard to pollution, Mr. Mayor. It is not as palatable as, uh, as that the man who drank it seemed to indicate. Well, of course not. You drank it because it is pure and could not do him any harm. Well, that's what we're trying to, to get, is that the bay will not be injurious to the health of the people. Uh, I wonder if, uh, we couldn't get on a map the, uh, the location of the ones that are in operation and the ones that are going to be. Yes, I sent over a map to you, Mr. Mayor. It's, uh, I think... Well, maybe Miss Holly's got it. Uh, Miss Holly. Have you got Commissioner Zemulian's maps? Yes, General. Can you bring one in, Miss Holly, please? Uh, Mr. Mayor, this, uh, there's another feature of this, uh, sewage pollution that ought not to be, uh, forgotten. And that is that the exhaustion of the oxygen content of the water makes the surrounding territory offensive, whether it's for bathing or anything else. If it hadn't been for the Tallman's Island and the Bowery, uh, plants, we couldn't have held the World's Fair at Fleshing Meadow. Just would have been impossible. Well, I think you can get that very thing if you take a walk along the, the, uh, the waterfront in Bear Ridge, where you have three sewers at the present time pouring right in there at that point. Uh, that's about where the Owls Head plant is going to, is under construction. Uh, uh... Trent, Trent, would you tell us where... Yes, this map, Mr. Mayor, uh, indicates the entire harbor. The upper bay and the lower bay is the Manhattan and the Bronx is up in here. Yeah. Uh, the Owls Head plant that I spoke about is situated right here in Bear Ridge. That's under construction. That's under construction and it, and it... Of course you give us first the ones that are actually in operation. No, the ones in operation are the ones indicated here, which is on Ward's Island. Yeah. Bowery Bay. Yeah. Talsman Island. Yeah. 26th Ward. Yeah. Jamaica. Cooney Island. Yeah. Those are the ones that are in. Now, we have some other treatment plants, which we call treatment plants, because we screen and take the offensive solids from the water. That is not sewage treatment. They are not entirely. We... They are not... That is not sewage treatment. It's just screening and chlorinating. Now, the ones under construction, I don't see the Hunts Point. Well, it is just right here. Hunts Point is right up in here. That's right. And it takes entirely the western or the eastern part of the Bronx. All of the eastern part of the Bronx. And that plant is going to be... It will treat 120 million gallons per day. Now, we have another one here in Rockaway, which has just took bids on, which will be awarded in very short order. That will be under construction within the next month or so. How about the 26th Ward up here? 26th Ward, we have a large extension of that. We have just revising it and increasing its capacity by... Now, those two, Owls Head and 26th Ward, will actually clean up Jamaica Bay, won't it? When Rockaway and 26th Ward is completed, Jamaica Bay will be entirely free of the additional pollution by reason of sewage. Why could we tell the people, Fred, that those waters are going to be actually clean on the present plans, the present work going on, in Jamaica Bay? In Jamaica Bay, it will be... This is in June of 50. It will be in the summer before the summer of 52. Yeah. That's Rockaway plant will be completed. That is... The Owls Head plant will be completed before the summer of 51. That is about the middle of next summer, the one after this. We will have it in operation for next summer. That will help Coney Island and South Beach, won't it? Well, that will... We believe and we know that it will clear up the South Beach and Midland Beach and all of the South Shore of Staten Island, as well as Coney Island, as far on as the Rockaway. Bob, a lot of people ask me from time to time if we're the only ones cleaning up the harbor. They say that other communities, like New Jersey, Connecticut, contribute to that pollution too. Yes. Could we maybe get a line on how... What guarantees we have that we're not doing it all alone? Well, we have the assurance of the Interstate Commission that they're going to force these recalcitrant, the backward communities, to do their part of the work. Is there a legal means by which they can do it? Yes, there is. They can enforce that and there isn't any question about it. The difficulty, of course, is to find, in some way, to find enough money or to persuade these communities to find enough money to do the job. Now, you can't make them spend money they haven't got. And that is one difficulty. But there is one source of pollution. We did. We did, Bob. We did. We passed a law today in which we got money, new money to do it because it's a matter of health. However... The others will have to find it also. I think, Fred, you'll agree that the greatest potential source of danger is the Passaic Valley in New Jersey. The Passaic Valley, Mr. Mayor, along with Dr. Mahoney, we keep for almost 28 years, I think it is, we have a complete testing of the waters of the harbor all the way down for our purposes. And we find that as we reach the outlet of the Passaic Valley sewer, our content is increased tremendously. Why wouldn't it be? These communities are growing too. Well, that brings up a point, Bob, about how they'll finance it. Now, suppose Bill Reed were to tell us about how they used to finance these sewage disposal plants here and how we're financing it now. Bill, I think we ought to get that clear. Well, generally, these plants have been financed by assessments, citywide assessments. The assessments are levied against all the taxable real estate in the city. Are you talking about it up to now? Up to now. All right. Collected over a period of five years, generally speaking. Before the Board of Assessors can levy the assessments, the contractor, of course, has to go ahead with the job, and the jobs are generally finished before the assessments are levied. That means we have to finance the work and get the money to pay the contractors through the issuance of bonds. And these bonds must be charged, up to this time, of course, under the new plan, it'll be different, against the city's constitutional debt limit. What do you get out of that? Don't you get highway improvement and things like that? Everything the city does is chargeable against that debt limit, and these plants are so necessary and are costing so much money that we had to find some new method of financing them and carry on the other projects at the same time. Well, did you notice today up at the Board of Estimate meeting, on this very question, on the sewer rental bill that went through, that you had speakers there that said that it wasn't necessary for us to have a sewer rental imposed at this time, that we could get along without it. You remember that there was some discussion there? There was quite an argument about that, General. I think you ought to tell us that. All right. They seem to lose sight of the fact. I'd just like to make this point first, that the first stage of this program, which will be finished by the end of 1953, is to cost $95 million. Yeah. And the second phase, which will be carried on through 1959, is going to cost $105 million more. Yeah. The beaches, the beach program will run into about $95 million. These sewage disposal plants. That we're into now, the program we're into. That's right. That Fred Zemulian said will be in really good shape and working on it in 1952. Mr. Mayor, we have more than half of it, almost 60% of it, under contract at the present time. Okay. 1952, we can look for help. Now, you tell us. Now, in order to go ahead with this job, and at the same time, not interfere with the other necessary jobs, including the local sewers, the highways, and the parks, and all the rest of the things that we're trying to do, and even including some of the public works, hospitals, and schools. Yeah. We had to find some different way of financing these disposal plants. That is, if you built the streets and the schools and the other improvements, you wouldn't have any money for this. Right. And you have to do them, too. That's right. All right. And these jobs have to go on, of course. Now, the way we're getting over the hurdle is to, the council, as you know, took action last Tuesday, and the board of estimate today, and you will have a public hearing someday next week to give anyone an opportunity to come in and speak about this thing, this sewer rental, which is to be charged to all the people in the city who use city water, that's connected, or water, rather, city and private, that's connected to the city sewers. The very people that are polluting the harbor. That's right. All right. The one, the one practical way of measuring the service is to base the charge on the quantity of water that's used. Yeah. And that's the plan that's generally followed throughout the United States or anywhere else that such a plan is involved. To get sufficient money to pay the operating cost of these plants and to pay the debt service on the plants and have a little excess over requires the charging of one third as a sewer rent of the water. Charged that we exact from the people who use the city water. And that includes, General, the people who get their water from the private water companies where the water flows into the city sewers. Yeah. Now, the talk that was going on upstairs in the Board of Estimates today was nothing but delaying talk because they said that we were charging first against the sewer charge the operating costs. Yeah. And we ought to be charging the debt service costs. Well, now, we can't get an exemption from the debt limit unless we pay all the costs from the sewer rent. By paying all the costs, including the operating costs, from the sewer rent, we do not have to charge the debt that we must incur to build these plants against the constitutional debt limit. And that's why we're following this procedure with respect to the financing of these plants. of course, Bill, it's almost, it's the strangest thing in the world. These things are written up in the newspapers and people read them and forget all about them. Now, I'm sure that everyone that appeared there today meant well, but what they were asking us to do was to get constitutional amendments that would take three years to put through while we have a health hazard at our door. Bob, how long ago would you say should this job have been done? Well, it should have been started in earnest about 20 years ago. Well, do you know what they said today? They said we were going at this too quickly. Well, that's true. Dr. Mahoney, can you imagine anyone saying that where you have the waters and which so many people are going to bathe in this summer and that have some pollution in it and we'll have more and more unless we do this, that we work too quickly? I mean, that's an astonishing thing. May I add a humble doctor's appreciation for the courage you men have in taking on this problem? It's truly an enormous task and one directed at the proper angle. Well, John, you just either do it or you don't. The question is what are the important things in this city to do so that it's a livable place and that it's healthy and comfortable? This is one of them and just as Bob Moses says, it's 20 years coming, it's time it was done. And I tell you right now that what is the use of talking about pennies? This program won't come to more than 40 cents a month per family and with all that sewage dumped into the very waters that they're going to bathe in, that's a health protection for them and everyone in the city, 40 cents a month the family is certainly not excessive. There was a little very lovely woman appeared today before the Board of Estimate and she pointed this out, Bob, which is a good point. She said that by the time you go out into the outskirts where the beaches are naturally clean and where there aren't crowds and they're not yet polluted, that you spend more than that in gasoline to take you out and to bring you back. She was in favor of it. It was an excellent point. And thanks ever so much for helping us out. And folks, you who have been listening in to us, we'll bring you another story in two weeks' time, tell you as much as we can. You can't hope to get the whole story of city government in a half an hour. The best we can do is to give you the highlights of it and all we can do is to invite you to listen in while we discuss these matters among ourselves. If you have any comments to make on it, send it in. If you have any questions that you'd like to have discussed, send that in. We'll be very glad to take them up in order just as soon as we can come to them. Thank you very much and good night. God bless you. everyone.