Good afternoon, radio listeners. We are delighted to have this opportunity to talk with you. Mrs. Shoney, I'm sure you've had a very busy summer in the food preservation program. Yes, I did. And although the final figures on the number of jobs canned were not complete, it seems to me that we were much busier than last year. Don't you think so, Mrs. Shoney? When comparing it with past food preservation programs, the interest was almost as dated during the first years of the war, and certainly much greater than last year. I recently saw some reports which stated that 276 women canned 15,359 jars of produce this season. And on the basis of this, agree with you that the public certainly went along with the government's advice to can the perishables so as to have more to care. The housewives who can will have more variety of things and be able to improve the nutrition of their family's meals. Speaking of family's meals, Mrs. Jones, This season always makes you think of one of the important members of the family, the school child. They certainly are important. And I always think of how vital the lunchtime is to these school children. I read a statement by one of our eminent nutritionists that said that one year of right feeding in the life of a child is much more important than ten years of right nutrition after he reaches 40. I saw that, too. And I should think it would make all mothers conscious of adequate meals. But it is not only the adequacy which is important, but also the skill and imagination it takes to make meals attractive. How true that is! The same teacher I mentioned before also said that good food habits in young children will bear heavy dividends throughout his life and will be worth much more than the time and patience it takes to form them. I wish more parents would appreciate that. Everyone wants a child to have enough of the right foods to help him grow up to be a strong adult. A healthy child is a happy child. Mrs. Jones, apparently it's not how much a child eats, it's how much of the right food he gets. Yes, you remember we were saying that a number of studies on child feeding revealed that many children were poorly nourished. Do you recall, by the way, whether these studies were related to income and location? Oh, yes. It is said that this is true in all income levels and in all sections of the country. Of course, one of our main aims in nutrition teaching is for a well-nourished child. Would you like to tell the listeners what is considered a well-nourished child? He is one whose body is receiving all the food materials that it needs in order to grow and function as it should. To do this, the body must get one, protein for building and repair of all body tissues, fats, starches, and sugars to furnish fuel for body activities with a slight surplus to be stored as body fats, all the minerals and vitamins that are essential to growth and well-being and also water. Of course, to make sure that all these needs are being met, don't you think it's necessary to have two things? First, a daily meal plan, and second, starting the youngsters early on good eating habits. Yes, I do. The child who forms good eating habits early is off to a good start, has something that will bear dividends all through his life, and of course, the daily meal plan is a simple one to learn. I think that most parents like a guide as to what food should be included, don't you? There are many good pamphlets. One that I think is particularly good is planning lunches for the school child. This also gives a daily food pattern. I suppose listeners could send for this. We will give the address at the end of the program. Having a guide seems to me like a two-fold dividend. By eating the right food, the child lays the foundation for growth and development, and at the same time, learns to like variety so he doesn't become a finicky eater. What to do with the fussy eating must be a problem. In my talks with parents, one of the main questions is, what will I do if Johnny or Mary doesn't like it? Well, I suppose it is true that they worry about them, but I think most authorities will agree that there is no single rule in establishing good habits and regularity. What are some of the suggestions, though, that you usually give? Make mealtime a pleasant time. Don't talk about likes and dislikes. Good examples from parents themselves is very important, too. If most of adults were more thoughtful in regard to this, it certainly would help. How often I hear a grown-up say, no greens for me. I leave the grass for the cows. And another thing I feel is important, too, is to have the food well prepared the very first time it's served. Preparation must be important. I can well remember a young mother of a school child saying, I never knew carrots tasted like that. My child says she doesn't like them. But served this way, I'm sure she'll enjoy it. This simple change in preparation was a result of a class for parents showing them how to cook vegetables. Don't you agree proper cooking is important? Yes, I do. And now that the canning program is over, the six-lesson course in simple food preparation will be started again, won't it? Yes, the schedules will be ready very soon. Co-operative cooking classes, Miss O'Keefe, I think are very important because they not only show something about food preparation, but also give an opportunity to discuss the size of servings. And in the school-age child, when you're trying to introduce new foods, it is wise to serve only a small amount until he becomes accustomed to it. What do you think, Miss O'Keefe, about in-between meal snacks? It depends upon what the snack is. I mean by that, is it a body-building food, or is it just one that takes the edge off the appetite? Well, then, for active children with good appetites, there isn't any harm in a wholesome afternoon snack, is it? No, really not. If they're very good, they fill in a good gap in the day. By the way, Mrs. Jones, did you see the exhibit of the New York City Food and Nutrition Committee? No, I didn't. But you know, I heard it was very attractive, particularly the ones for the teenage group and the school-child. Tell us something about it, Miss O'Keefe. Well, there were six, really, but three of them told a pictorial story of practices not to be followed, and accompanying these were suggestions that fit into our broadcast today. One was called Gulp and Galloper. Here we see paper doll models sitting at a counter, half on the run, and accompanying this display was the following saying, Breakfast on the run is a bad start for a busy day. Take it easy. Refuel and begin the day with plenty of get up and go. Another that certainly is quite common in our school-age group was the pint-sized whizzlers. And the accompanying placard said, A picnic is the place for the weenie and the soda. They are for special occasions. School days call for sturdier stuff to help a lad or a lass head to class. You remember that we mentioned something about the in-between meal snack. Do any of the exhibits take this up? Well, there was one, and it was called the four o'clock soaker. This recognizes the in-between food in the following theme. By all means, satisfy the four o'clock urge to munch. But choose the right fare if you want to add pets, and not pets, to have the skin you like to touch. No ball would be a golf or gallop or a sage-caller good eating habit. No, and this is certainly true about the pint-sized whizzlers. For whether lunch is carried from home or is part of the school lunch program, it should be well-planned and include nutritious food. The same pamphlet that we mentioned a while ago did an excellent lunch at the end. Well, we'll tell them about that later, but right now I'd like to mention something else. And I was pleased to read recently that the National School Lunch Act was passed. This should mean better lunches for a poor children the country over. That's an excellent advance, because now it is permanent rather than a year-by-year plan. The non-profit school lunch program in both public and non-profit private schools is eligible for federal assistance. Yes, that's right, and the school enters into a contract with the state agency and agrees to meet certain requirements. The lunch must be available to all children in the school regardless of the ability to pay and without discrimination. There are two kinds of lunch types, regardless of which one. The school lunch should provide nutritive value as well as satisfaction and enjoyment to the student. It should also help in developing good eating habits. The patterns of both are listed in the bulletin put out called the National School Lunch Program, and this is published by the United States Department of Agriculture. But now I see our time is running short, and we promise to give the address where to obtain the bulletin about the lunch, the school lunches. It's called Planning School Lunches for the School of Child, and it's issued by the Evacorated Milk Company. It can be obtained by writing to the American Red Cross Nutrition Service, 401 Fifth Avenue, New York 16. And then for those listeners who were interested in knowing more about the cooking classes, you might call Murray Hill 4-4455 or write to the Nutrition Service, American Red Cross, 401 Fifth Avenue.