Straighten up and fly right. Straighten up and stay right. Straighten up and fly right. Cool down, Papa, don't you go, you're tough. This is Nat King Cole and the trio on Here's to Veterans, especially transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. The top flight bands of the land for all you ex-servicemen and women and your families. Straighten up and fly right. Straighten up and stay right. Straighten up and fly right. Cool down, Papa, don't you blow your top. Fly right. Yes, and a very special hello from Nat King Cole and the fellas. To all you veterans of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard, here's a tune that's a little different. Listen to Lost April. Lost April. Lost April. Where did you go? Like winter snow. I saw you vanish. Lost April. So soft and warm. Lost and warm. A memory not even time can vanish. Lost April. Lost April. That taught me this. A single kiss. Could lead to heaven. But April. Had none. Lost April. That taught me this. A single kiss. That taught me this. A single kiss. A single kiss. Could lead to heaven. Could lead to heaven. But April. Had number days. So when they passed. Love couldn't last. So when they passed, love couldn't last. I lost love and you and April too. So when they passed, love couldn't last. I lost love and you and April too. Your money cheerfully refunded. Now that's a pleasant announcement. It is one that you would expect to hear when you deal with a good company. Well veterans, the special insurance dividend the Veterans Administration is getting ready to pay is somewhat along that line. Although of course it is not the same thing. Here's what has happened. The VA's insurance cash reserve turned out to be more than the amount necessary to give you fellows full GI insurance protection. So the Veterans Administration is getting ready to return the surplus money and proportionate shares in the form of a special dividend. Who is entitled to it? You veterans who have held National Service life insurance for three months or more. If you took it out before the end of 1947. But to get this money you must apply for it. Later on I'll tell you how to apply. But right now here's a special Nat King Cole treatment of a tune we hope you'll like. I used to love you but it's all over now. You know it's all over town that you threw me down. You shouldn't let me go. I used to love you but it's all over now. You know it's all over town that you threw me down. You shouldn't let that kind of story go round. You've had your chance and now it's all over. I'll get along somehow. Now there are things that you did I used to forgive. But you never changed it as long as you live. Oh I used to love you but it's all over. All over now. You know it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. I used to love you but it's all over now. All over now. All right veterans and you fellas here in the band and the group here with me. You ex-GIs too. Here's how to apply for your special dividend on national service life insurance. Application blanks are at your nearest post office. Or get one from your veterans organization or at your nearest VA office. Fill out your application completely and accurately. Use your full name. Spell it the same as in your service record. Give your permanent address. Use only one application. If you send in two, you will just make trouble. And please don't write letters asking for information. To answer your letter, the VA will have to remove your application from its production line. That means a necessary delay for you. One last point. Don't expect your dividend money in a week or even a month after you apply. Send only one application. Fill it out completely. Your dividend check will be mailed as soon as possible. Probably soon after the first of next year. Now here's a very special song by a very special composer, Billy Strayhorn. We think he's a very great writer. And it's called Lush Life. The Lush Life. I used to visit all the very gay places. Those come what may places. Where one relaxes on the axis of the wheel of life. To get the feel of life. From jazz and cocktails. The girls I knew had sad and sullen gray faces. With distant gay traces. That used to be there you could see where they'd been washed away. By too many through the day. Twelve o'clock tales. Then you came along with your siren of song. To tempt me to madness. The girls I knew had sad and sullen gray faces. With distant gay traces. That used to be there you could see where they'd been washed away. By too many through the day. Twelve o'clock tales. Then you came along with your siren of song. To tempt me to madness. I thought for a while that your poignant smile. Was tinged with the sadness. Of a great love for me. Ah yes, I was wrong. Again I was wrong. Life is lonely again. And only last year. Everything seemed so sure. Now life is awful again. A trough full of hearts. Could only be a bore. A week in Paris. We'll ease the bite of it. All I care is to smile. In spite of it. I'll forget you. I will. While yet you are still. Burning inside my brain. Romance is mush. Striping those who strive. I'll live a lush life. In some small dive. And there I'll be. Where I'll rot. With the rest. Of those who lies. Of those who lies. Are lonely too. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. I'll be. Well fellas. Let's say this next tune is especially for you veterans of the first world war. You know this take you back to the gay twenties. You might remember it called Yes Sir, That's My Baby. By the way. By the way. When we reach that preacher. I'll say. With feeling. Yes Sir, That's My Baby. No Sir, Don't Mean Maybe. Yes Sir, That's My Baby. No Sir, Don't Mean Maybe. Yes Sir, That's My Baby. Now. And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from yours truly Nat King Cole and the trio. Presented transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. James C. Petrillo President whose members have donated their services and this station which has contributed this time in the public interest. Tune in again for another top flight band of the land on Here's to Veterans. And now a word from your station announcer. Here's to address the notice from him. So, a pube. On the nuise group, He was useful for the challenge you have to take his aim. Did this again make his aim so Ditie? The commander can't choose from him. A fastballist young father's children who had been even a careator of the커." Well, that's not what I wanted. All right. Well, what you do? Thank you. This is Tommy Dorsey and the band on Here's to Veterans, especially transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians, the top-flight bands of the land for all you ex-servicemen and women and your families. This is Tommy Dorsey saluting you veterans of all four services with a line-up of top tunes for your dancing and listening pleasure. And a very special, important announcement to all you ex-GIs. But first, here's an original tune by a very original lad, ex-GI Billy Finnegan's Pussy Willow. March Ad attract modalities, and 차 very much jewelry. And we αν virios and your mãn kriegen all that зай hàng of man and imposibles. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ an announcement from the company. It stated that their cash reserve was greater than they needed. Consequently, the company was getting ready to return the extra money in proportional shares to its stockholders in the form of a special dividend. Well, most of you veterans who hold National Service life insurance are in a situation like Joe's. If you held your insurance for three months or more and you had it before the end of 1947, the Veterans Administration is going to pay you a special dividend on the money you invested in your premiums. But to get this money, you must apply for it. Later, I'll tell you veterans how and where to apply. But right now, music and a favorite of ours and yours, I'm in the mood for love. Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black Song Black bib Black order Black Black Black ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ and accurately. Use your full name, spell it the same as in your service record. Give your permanent address. Use only one application. If you send in two, you'll just make trouble. And please, don't write letters asking for information. To answer your letter, the VA will have to remove your application from its production line. That means unnecessary delay for you. One last point, don't expect your dividend money in a week or even a month. After you apply, send only one application. Fill it out completely and your dividend check will be mailed as soon as possible. Probably soon after the first of next year. Here now is a tune we first recorded in 1937 and is probably one of the reasons we are still in the band business. You all remember Song of India. The lofty line of Abina madeaving rub some musst encourages and으로 the bibl衛 christian lantern for women of ingenuity. The lofty line of mo charlie наши are all available to our captives will never attend the university's rise to guerreende servbee. All the turtles will confirm, and it sendsود to a chiezened Aqua by chance of choosing and getting rid of the leadingutches of essential things. That's the best altruism to the hip of natural rep приutive to teach social norm. That it does belong to the sand and amplifying ground. Mill with a great amount, Schnap and local died. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End
