And now, It's Your Life, a dramatic real-life program about you and your family. What would you have done if you were a nurse in charge of 30 or 40 patients, and suddenly your hospital began to be fired on by heavy artillery? During this past war, a good many women must have asked themselves that question. Today, you're going to hear the story of one woman who answered it in action. It's Your Life is brought to you by Johnson & Johnson, makers of Red Cross bandage, sterile gauze pads, adhesive tape, and other products, serving the medical profession in the homes of America since 1886. During this episode, you're going with us into one of the Army's great general hospitals. The real-life stories you hear come to you directly via transcribed tape recording from the lives of men and women who have served in war and peace. Now, with today's program, here's our producer, Ben Park. Yes, today you're going with us right into an Army hospital. The Army is a very official organization, and so the first person you talk to is the highest officer of the hospital, the commanding general. He greets you officially and warmly. Looking over Don Herbert's shoulder, you say, Our place looks tremendous. How big is this hospital? We can accommodate, on a normal basis, 1,600 patients. However, we can, by decreasing our bed space, expand to about 1,850 patients. Would you compare that to a city hospital? Have you any idea how that compares to a normal city hospital? Normally, we are larger than the average city hospital, although some of the hospitals in New York and Chicago are larger than we are. We are divided into services, just as the ordinary civilian hospital would be. Now, best trained and best qualified men are designated as chiefs of services and are responsible for the various services, that is, the surgical service, medical service, the neuropsychiatric service, and the various branches of those services. We also have well-trained men in charge of our X-ray laboratory, physical medicine, your nose and throat, and other clinics. The operation of the hospital is that a man is received at the receiving office, either by his records coming in or by a hasty examination and is determined what ward he should go. He is then placed on that ward. The ward officer immediately given his past records, if any, if not the results of a hasty examination by the admitting officer. And the patient is immediately processed for care with the chief of service supervising the general care. Without cost to the patient, we may have as many consultations or as many laboratory examinations as we deem necessary in order to make proper diagnosis and to guide us in the proper treatment of the patient. In order that you may see the operation of the hospital, I would like to invite you to visit the wards and clinics, in fact, any part of the hospital that you may desire, and interview both the doctors and the patients. Well, thank you very much, General. And so you find yourself right inside the hospital, free to go where you want to, and with the blessing of the commanding general. Well, when you think of the Army, you think of wartime. That's inevitable. But if you were to talk to a war hero, you would not expect that hero's voice to sound like this. Well, it was starting the time we landed as a beachhead, Anzion, and set up down on the beach at first. And it was around about 5.45 in the evening. And we were just, I was over in the operating room, and I had just started walking from the operating room into the post-op tent when they started shelling the hospital, which at the time we didn't know what it was. We thought it was just some close hits, which had been going on ever since we had been there. And then finally one of the shells landed directly in the supply tent and realizing then that it was the hospital that was being hit, then we all ran into the post-op tent and started getting the patients down on the ground. And they hit the generator and all the lights went out, and right after that happened there was another drag kit right on the post-op tent. And after it went on for about half an hour, it was right in the post-op tent with the patients. And after shelling finally ceased, then some of the officers that were over in their quarters came over into the tent to find out who was over in the place and how many had been hurt. Some of the patients were killed from the shelling and the rest of them, and they got ambulances and put them in the ambulance and took them over to one of the other hospitals that was set up in an area a short distance away from us. Weren't you scared? I was just scared I didn't know what I was doing. What actually did you do? How many patients did you take care of during the time? Well, I think there were around about between 30 and 40 patients in the tent. And, of course, being the only nurse there and going around and trying to quiet them down and getting cover over those that we could, it wasn't very much. It was just a mattress, threw that over the top of them, and ones that I was able to lift down, I got down on the ground. Were you hit at any time? No. I was knocked up against from the concussion from one of the shells that landed there, and I was knocked up against one of the oxygen tents, and I guess I was stunned for a second or so because the next thing I knew I was going right along and working with the rest of the men in the tent. How did you finally end up getting the Silver Star? Well, the fact that it was under heavy artillery shelling, and we had been told that any time that the area was being shelled or bombed, then we were definitely supposed to take cover. Do you know of other nurses who have received the Silver Star? There was a lieutenant and a lieutenant from the back hospital. Two other nurses? Yes. Supposedly from all the records, and we were the only three of the women that have ever received the Silver Star. Now, of course, she means that only three nurses in her outfit won the Silver Star. She's told you about her wartime experiences. She's still in the Army today as a regular Army nurse. Her job is to take care of people who need her, whether in war or peacetime. And so now you talk with her not so much about what she does as a nurse, but about some of those ordinary things that make up life's everyday story. When patients that you work with find out that you're a winner of the Silver Star, what do they say about it? Do you teach you about it? Well, truthfully, I don't tell anybody about it. Well, how does it get around the hospital? Well, we have a special service and public relations officer, but every so often they go through records and look at it, and it's a case of, ah, look what we have here. I see. And before you know it, it goes into the hospital paper magazine, and when it gets into the hands of the patient, then your life isn't your own from then on. Well, you say your life isn't your own. What do you mean? What happens? Well, you just take an awful kidding about it. Of course, one of the famous terms is, ah, look who we have here, Antheo Annie. You're known as Antheo Annie? Not officially, because I pulled my rank out of this idea. You're a captain. That's right. When you say kidding, why do you think the patients kid you about it? Oh, they're just a good group of patients, and they just like to kid with the nurses, and it just sort of takes the strain off of the relationship that you have with them professionally. It's a good thing for them to do it. Oh, surely. Certainly no harm in it. If they feel that they can kid you and sort of, oh, say, almost slightly get the upper hand, it gives them a certain feeling of satisfaction and so forth. Especially with the nurses. We leave our army nurse and travel swiftly to another part of the hospital. Don Herbert goes to a very important part of the place now. You're going to wonder at first what it has to do with the hospital, but in just a moment you'll discover it has a lot to do with it. Now, I'm sitting right in the driver's seat, shall we say, of a car that is especially designed and built for an amputee. How serious an amputee can actually drive this car? Well, it varies with the overall health of the amputee. If he's in normal health other than his disability, I would say there is very little limit to the disability. As long as his artificial limbs work as far as his upper extremities are concerned. He must have use of his upper extremities, naturally, whether they be artificial limbs or not. Now, I notice on the car, however, there are two pedals, one with a gas is. Is that a gas pedal there? That's the foot accelerator. And the one on the left? That is a left foot accelerator for a right leg amp. In other words, if he has his left leg is still present, he may use that on the left side. It's the other way around, of course. Your normal accelerator on the right. Now, the shifting mechanism seems quite complicated. There are three sets of levers up here, and they look very much like ordinary shift lever on a car, but there are three sets of them. Would you explain what they are? Well, actually, it's not as complicated as it looks. You have your normal shift on the right-hand side here. That's the first lever that you see here. That's the normal shift. It's in the normal position. It's in the normal position. There is an extension of that same shift on the left side. It's simply in addition to this arm, but it's extended to the left. It's shifted in the same way, except by, let's say, a right arm amp would use the left side. This other third lever, the short lever, just underneath the steering wheel, is a hand accelerator and a hand brake. If you pull that down, it's a hand accelerator, and when you push it up, it's a hand brake. This one. Oh, this one. When you push it down, it's an accelerator, and when you push it up, it's a brake. It's a hand brake. So even though a man has had both arms amputated and is using one of the hooks, he can work it by either side. That's right. He doesn't necessarily have to have his legs at all as long as he can use his arms on this hand brake and feet. So the biggest thing that's different about this car, this car is different from an ordinary car, mostly in this accelerator and brake and operated lever on the left. Hand feeds are the biggest difference on this car. Tomorrow you're going to meet a man who will soon be using such an automobile as Don Hubbard is learning how to drive. He's a man who has lost an arm, and as you visit with him, he's being fitted for an artificial one. You'll stay with him as he learns how to use it so that he, too, can get back in the driver's seat. I'll be back in a moment with a very special message. Now I'd like you to lend an ear to the words of Tony Parrish as he speaks for the people who bring you this program, Johnson & Johnson. Friends, as you know, accidents, like many diseases, offer no warning. That's why it's best always to be prepared for those sudden home emergencies with a well-stocked medicine cabinet. Make sure it includes famous Johnson & Johnson first aid products. You'll be glad to have them in case of kitchen burns, minor cuts and scratches, and those other household accidents that demand prompt attention. You'll find Johnson & Johnson's Red Cross gauze, sterile gauze pads, and adhesive tape indispensable for first aid treatment. And Johnson & Johnson's stair pads will come in handy for baby care, too. Red Cross bandage, stair pads, and adhesive tape are made exclusively by Johnson & Johnson and have no connection whatever with the American National Red Cross. Remember, Johnson & Johnson stands for the highest in quality. Now here's Ben Park with an important, special message. You've asked for it, and now it's going to happen. Here's what I mean. Many of you have written to It's Your Life and have expressed a desire that the program be presented at a time when husbands, children, and others in the family can hear it. Beginning Sunday, April 17th, It's Your Life becomes a bigger, fuller program heard every week at a time when everyone can listen. The time is 3.30 Sunday afternoon. The first program, Sunday, April 17th, 3.30 p.m. Now, once again, Tony Parrish. It's Your Life is produced in transcription for the health and medical agencies of Chicago by the Chicago Industrial Health Association. Our sponsor is Johnson & Johnson, makers of Red Cross adhesive tape, preferred in 7 out of 10 homes where adhesive tape is used. Johnson & Johnson, serving the medical profession in the homes of America since 1886. Now, this is Tony Parrish, reminding you that tomorrow brings another heartwarming human chapter in the story of life in an army hospital today. Don't fail to get close to your radio at 11.15 tomorrow, because 11.15 is still the time for It's Your Life. WMAQ and WMAQ-FM, NBC in Chicago. Here's a tip on a solid hour of listening pleasure for your late afternoon tuning. Thank you.