From the Fire Department of New York City, your city station brings you the Veterans Memorial Services for members of the Fire Department, presented under the auspices of the American Legion Fire Department Post No. 930. The members of the Fire Department's Legion Post today honor their fellows who were killed in the service of the nation, both as members of the Armed Forces in World War II and as members of New York City's Fire Department. Here now to start the services with the presentation of the colors is Lieutenant James P. Coyle, commander of the American Legion Fire Department Post No. 930. The officer of the day and the sergeant of arms, advance the flag of our country. Hand, salute. Two. National Anthem, New York Fire Department Glee Club. National Anthem, New York City, the American Legion Fire Department Glee Club. Oh, say that you'll see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. That our flag was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, and the flag was still there. The opening prayer, Chaplain, New York Fire Department, the Reverend Leo G. Farley. Almighty and eternal God, our heavenly Father, in open-hearted trust and fill your love, we appeal to thee to bless us here assembled, and the purpose for which we have come together. We recommend to thy divine mercy the souls of our departed members of the fire department who died in line of duty, those who died while in the armed forces of the United States in the First and Second World Wars. We pray for them a place of refreshment, light, and peace. May they who in their lives protected others be now protected by thy loving mercy. And may the blessing of Almighty God descend upon us, the living members of the New York Fire Department, that through the inspiration and example of our uned dead, we may learn effectively to live in complete harmony, to work in dedicated service for the safety of our brother firemen, and to strive for the successful protection of those entrusted to our care. A selection by the Fire Department of Glee Club, softly and tenderly. Jesus is calling. Calling for you and for me.hone Calling for you and for me Sing at the portal He's waiting and watching Watching for you And for me Come home Come home Come home Come home He who are weary Come home Heardly, tenderly Jesus is calling Calling for you and for me We assemble here today as we have in years past to remember our honored dead. The two plaques before which we are gathered commemorate our comrades in arms who gave the last full measure of devotion to our country in her time of peril, and our brothers in blue who offered their lives in the demands of the hazardous duties of our profession. As Legionnaires, we are pledged to remember our honored dead. As firemen, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum, the museum. As Legionnaires, we are pledged to remember our honored dead. As firemen, the mutual dependence of one man to another in the dangers we face, forges the bond of brotherhood with a lasting regard for the brother who yields only to death. The names inscribed in bronze, who we remember with reverence today, are joined by additional names since our meeting a year ago. The passing year has taken its toll of our comrades and brothers. Now they have fallen, and with one accord, we do them honor. On this memorial day of 1952, mindful of the sacrifice we revere here, let us pledge ourselves anew to our awareness of responsibilities of patriotic citizenship. Let us continue in our communities the interest and alertness to the ever-present problems besetting all of us today, and by example, restore the virtues and character that make our nation great. Let us consecrate ourselves to emulate those whom we honor today, that they may not have died in vain. Comrades and brothers, we salute you who have fallen in noble death. I'm going to ask the Commissioner of the Fire Department, the Honorable Jacob Groumet, if he will say a word. I believe that it is altogether fitting and proper on the eve of Memorial Day that we gather here at this plaque to pay tribute to those members of the Fire Department who gave their lives in the service of our country. To a fireman, the true meaning of courage, devotion to duty, and yes, even the readiness to make the supreme sacrifice is nothing new. That is part of his daily stint. Those men whom we honor today shall always be remembered. May God bless their memory and may God bless those who sorrow for them. Thank you, Commissioner. We now have a scripture reading by the Reverend Edward Listman, Fire Department Chaplain. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations before the mountains were brought forth. Wherever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. Thou turnest man to dust, and sayest, Return ye children of men. For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday, when it is past, and as a watch in the night. Thou carryest them away as with a flood. They are in a sleep. In the morning they are like grass which groweth up. In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withereth. For we bring our years to an end as a tale that is told. The days of our years are threescore and ten. Or even by reason of strength fourscore years. Yet is there pride but travail and vanity. For it is speedily gone and we fly away. So teach us to number our days. That we may get as a heart to wisdom. Let thy work appear unto thy servants. And thy glory upon their children. And let the graciousness of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish thou the work of our hands upon us. Yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. I'm going to ask the commissioner if he will join me in placing a wreath at the foot of our plaque. To the honored dead of World War I and World War II. Thank you commissioner. I'm going to ask our acting chief of department Michael F. Powers if he will join me in placing a wreath. At the members at the plaque commemorating the memory of the members of the New York Fire Department who died in the line of duty. doesn't talk throughout hisladdy Ley. And then I place which strongly theüm students in the committee. And that is noble- Thank you. There it was written, my buddy, that we must plough you and I. Nights are long since you went away. I think about you all through the day. My buddy, my buddy, nobody cried so true. Miss your voice, the touch of your hand. Just long to know that you understand. My buddy, my buddy, your buddy misses you. Since our meeting a year ago, there have been 33 members of our post who have passed to their eternal reward. I'm going to ask the Reverend Robert A. Brown, Fire Department chaplain, to read our necrology. William Horan, Engine 258. John J. Stangwagner, Engine 224. Dr. Joseph B. Stenbuck. Michael F. O'Shea, Hook and Ladder 106. Daniel S. Burns, Engine 12. Frederick W. Edelman, Engine 83. Henry G. Allback, Hook and Ladder 165. Fred Schaefer, Engine 156. Bernard Delamere, Engine 49. Brian P. McKenna, Engine 72. Morris F. O'Connor, Engine 160. Henry J. Luchin, Engine 57. William Mutzah, Engine 217. William M. Tully, Engine 304. George F. Gross, 13th Battalion Aid. John J. Wood, Engine 72. William Munda, Hook and Ladder 130. Peter Fleming, Engine 95. William A. Panzella, Hook and Ladder 144. Alfred B. F. Nelson, Engine 92. Francis S. Freeman, Engine 220. Max Ross, Engine 23. Peter J. McMenemy, Engine 289. James J. McBride, the 1st Division. Patrick J. Porteous, Water Tower Number 2. Dennis J. Corridan, Engine 324. William F. Hurrigan, the 10th Division. William F. Ziegler, Engine 13. Matthew V. Mulcahy, Engine 23. Patrick J. Kassane, Hook and Ladder 114. Henry J. Struckman, Hook and Ladder 162. John J. McPartland, Engine 78. Joseph V. Blasack, Jr., Hook and Ladder 129. May they rest in peace. Taps by the Fire Department, Bueller. King Father, Planon, Bank Bank and Ladder 129. Richard Stroud, Judge 24. microphones through Google Green . Tommy Lamb!ามความรถ Bill Guards In the absence of our chief of department, Peter Loftus, member of this post for since its inception, who is confined to his home after being hurt in an accident, I'm going to ask the acting chief of department of Michael L. Powers if he will say a word to us. Memorial services such as this for members of the New York Fire Department who gave their lives in the service of their country and their city should impress vividly upon our minds the great sacrifices which have been made that this government conceived in the spirit of human liberty according to the divine order of Almighty God would prosper and should inspire us to living to shrink from no sacrifices, however great, that we may be called upon to make in defense of those liberties and in defense of this great city from which they so freely gave their lives. Thank you, Chief Powers. I'm going to ask the Glee Club if they will give us another selection. Thank you. excellent<|ja|> Nearer to thee Ye know it be a throst That brave let me Still all my song shall be Nearer to thee Nearer my God to thee Nearer to thee We're going to have the closing benediction by the Reverend Edward C. Russell, Chaplain, Fire Department, City of New York. Let us pray. O Lord, support us all the day long until the shadows lengthen and the evening comes and the busy world is hushed and the fever of life is over. Then in thy mercy grant us a safe lodging and a holy rest and peace at last. In the name of God. Amen. Sergeant at Arms, the officer of the day, prepare to retire the colors of our country. Colors attention carried. Colors. Clawed. Mind. Hand. Salute. Two. You have been listening to a memorial service for members of the fire department who perished in the line of duty to their country in the last world war and also as firemen with the New York City Fire Department. The services were held under the auspices of the American Legion Fire Department post number 930 and were brought to you from the headquarters of the New York City Fire Department through the facilities of your city station. We return you now to our studios for the final portion of your midday symphony. This is the municipal broadcasting system.