Each morning at 8.25, Monday through Friday, your public service hour has the cooperation of your Department of Markets in bringing to the housewife and homemaker essential information in the matter of marketing for the necessary items for those daily nutritious meals. On Tuesday mornings, a little previous to the regular service at 8.25, at 8.20 we present a guest speaker who discusses an individual phase of food or gives some guiding information in the better preparation leading into those daily nutritious meals. Well, we have the privilege this morning of presenting, at this time, your Commissioner of Markets, Eugene J. Schultz, who has a most important message for the housewife and homemaker at this time. Commissioner Schultz. Good morning, housewives. It is my desire this morning to say a few words to you about the mayor's campaign to combat the inordinate advance in the cost of three important protein foods, meat, butter, and eggs. From the latter part of May to last Saturday, the popular cuts of meat have shown striking increases. For example, bacon has increased about 20 cents per pound, loins of pork 16 cents per pound, and chuck steak 18 cents per pound. The advance in some dairy products is even more pronounced. Butter is now averaging 20 cents per pound higher than it was in May, and you are paying 20 cents more for a dozen large grade A eggs. That Mayor O'Dwyer's campaign has been effective is evidenced by the fact that the wholesale market was glutted with meat last weekend as a result of a marked slackening of demand by the retailers, thanks to the wholehearted cooperation of the housewives. Consequently, the wholesale price of meat dropped depreciably on Friday, and this decline should be reflected in the retail markets right now. With such a wide price range prevailing in the retail meat stores throughout the city, you may find it to your advantage to shop around for prices within reason. And another point. A heavy supply of commercial-grade beef is expected in the city this week. This meat, although lower in quality than the beef-graded good, is just as nutritious and needs only careful, slow cooking to make it as delicious as the higher grades, which are considerably more costly. As for butter, the increasing demand for fortified margarine, an excellent alternate spread, has resulted in a four- or five-cent drop in the wholesale cost of butter within the past week. Although the decline in eggs has not been so marked, I must say that the steady advance in the price of this wholesome food has been, to say the least, temporarily retarded. This is the time of the year when current egg receipts are normally light, and they usually remain so until the early part of December, when the heavy laying season begins. Therefore, we cannot hope for any appreciable increase in supply for the next two months. However, the housewife can go a long way in easing the strain on her budget by purchasing the pullet-sized eggs, which are a far better value than the large grade A eggs, or by using grade B eggs, which are just as nutritious as the grade A eggs, and just as good for all purposes, except for eating in the shell or poaching because of their consistency. I wish to say that Mayor William O'Dwyer emphasizes that this is not an eat less program, but a program designed to obtain for the consumer information on the most reasonably priced available foods. It is not intended to develop any reduction in normal diet needs. And it is with this idea in mind that Mrs. Gannon, our very able Director of Consumer Service and Research, who is so well known to you all, is working with our staff and the dietitians of the Department of Hospitals at the direction of the Mayor to present to you each day a breakfast, lunch, and dinner menu which contains appetizing and substantial food for growing children and adults. The food suggested in these menus can be purchased in the retail shops of the city at moderate cost on the day the menus are issued. We also list for you the day's best buys in meats, poultry, fish, dairy products, fruits, and vegetables, providing an additional recipe for the fish arriving each morning in greatest quantity. Now let me read the lunch and dinner menus for today and the breakfast menu for tomorrow which have been suggested by the dietitians of the Department of Markets and the Department of Hospitals for today's lunch. Quick borscht or canned tomato soup, macaroni and cheese, stewed mixed dried feux, cookies, whole wheat bread and margarine, milk for all the families. For tonight's dinner, tuna fish puffs, garlic snap beans, parsley potatoes, tomato slaw, molasses stewed pears, bread and margarine, coffee or tea for adults, milk for children. This dinner will cost $2.85 for a family of five. And for tomorrow's breakfast, tomato juice, dry or cooked wheat cereal with milk and fruit, toast with margarine, coffee for adults, milk for children. I cordially invite you, housewives, to the Department of Markets cooking class at 1.30 today, held in Unit A of the Essex Street retail market located on Essex Street between Stanton and Rivington Streets in Lower Manhattan. Here you can see in person, the dieticians prepare tonight's suggested dinner menu. I urge you to continue to make it your business to plan your meals around low-priced alternates when you cannot find the food you desire at a price level you can afford. In closing, I want to thank particularly the press and the radio broadcasters of this city for their splendid and unstinting cooperation in aiding Mayor O'Dwyer's committee to render this public service to you. Thank you, Commissioner Schultz. In your food program this morning, your market service, which comes to you every morning at this time in your public service hour, we had the privilege of presenting Commissioner Eugene G. Schultz of your Department of Markets, who brought you the timely information about marketing and cooperation. It's very important that we make the necessary adjustments, and Commissioner Schultz has outlined to you how you may do so. Your public service hour every morning presents the City Consumer Food Guide program at 8.25. On Tuesday mornings, we have a guest speaker who outlines one particular phase of food, an advisory situation to the housewife and homemaker in the matter of food, whereby she has helped to prepare those daily nutritious menus. And we've learned, of course, that the real value of food is nutrition. But shopping for that food is the prelude to a good nutritional day. It is our privilege and opportunity at this time to present the head of this tremendous activity, your Department of Markets, when we bring you your own Commissioner, Eugene G. Schultz, who has a very important message for the housewife and homemaker at this time. Commissioner Schultz. Good morning, housewives. It is my desire this morning to say a few words to you about the mayor's campaign to combat the inordinate advance in the cost of three important protein foods, meat, butter, and eggs. From the latter part of May to last Saturday, the popular cuts of meat have shown striking increases. For example, bacon has increased about 20 cents a pound, loins of pork 16 cents per pound, and chuck steak 18 cents per pound. The advance in some dairy products is even more pronounced. Butter is now averaging 20 cents per pound higher than it was in May, and you are paying 20 cents more for a dozen large grade A eggs. The mayor's campaign has been effective, and it is evidenced by the fact that the wholesale market was glutted with meat last weekend. We'll have to…