This afternoon, the United Parents Associations is happy to present a discussion by Mrs. Rose Colbert, chairman of its radio committee and two guests. The topic for today will cover various questions on radio for children. Mrs. Colbert. Thank you, Mr. Childs. Before I introduce my guests, I'd like to tell you how glad we are to come back to speak to you again. It was exactly a year ago, on October 29th, that we sat in this very same studio, weighing and examining the merits of the job Ray was doing for our children. Since then, it is a pleasure to be able to report that a new era has dawned in radio. For beginning January 1st, 1948, one of the networks, NBC, in cooperation with parent and civic groups, will relegate their broadcasting of mystery and whodunit shows to a late evening hour. Instead of airing the sometimes fear-producing and emotion-disturbing programs before children's bedtimes, they will be broadcast after 9.30 p.m. But here I see that Mrs. Estelle Berberian and Mrs. Bell Coslides, both of whom are very active in our radio committees, are anxious to speak. Yes, Mrs. Berberian. I know we are all very grateful for this wonderful change which we worked so hard for, Mrs. Colbert. But what about the children who, nevertheless, will be staying up to listen to mystery stories on other stations? Are you telling me, Mrs. Berberian, that children from the ages of 8 through 12 stay up to listen to the radio after 9.30, especially during the school week? Shocking as this may seem, Mrs. Coslides, the unfortunate fact is that there are many parents who, to the detriment of the health and well-being of their children, do permit them to do just that. Well, our chief concern right now, it seems to me, is about the listening time of those youngsters who are not committed to remain up to all hours of the night. While it is true that such good programs as The Lone Ranger, Exploring the Unknown, Cavalcade of America, Meet Corliss Archer, and The Greatest Story Ever Told are available, there are not enough of them to hold the interest of the entire child-listening audience, especially during the week. You have a point there, Mrs. Colbert. My child is 8 years old and is not particularly interested in Cavalcade of America yet, nor can she cope with the scientific material as presented in Exploring the Unknown. I think that more programs of the type to which my husband and I could listen with her would not only be fun, but would also contribute to a better family relationship. Sharing things together, even entertainment with one's young children, draws a family closer together. I'm thinking of programs like Blondie, Land of the Lost, Children's Story Fair, and Here's Heidi on this very station. I agree with you, Mrs. Barbarian. We should have more of these family programs during the weekdays. Most of them seem to be broadcast on weekends when so many of us are not at home to listen to them. Mrs. Cosmodez. There's one fact that we cannot forget or overlook, and that is, children do need mystery and adventure and fantasy. These help them to escape from their everyday life and daily routine. Probably this accounts for the popularity of Let's Pretend, for example. But surely the greater number of these types of programs now on the air during the listening time of children are not just what we, as thinking parents, want them to get. In other words, Mrs. Cosmodez, you feel that your child can and should get a great deal more out of radio than he is at present. While school is a place for learning, home is a place for relaxation, a calm and restful place for carrying over and continuing that which has been absorbed during the day. Yes, just that. Those parents who will encourage their children to listen to NBC will want the hours up to 9.30 p.m. filled with interesting programs that the children will want to listen to. I'm interested in what will be substituted as replacements. It seems to me, Mrs. Cobert, that there again is indicated the need for more of the family-type programs I mentioned before. But what worries me is the fact that only one of the networks has made this excellent change. What about the others? Does it mean that our children will still be getting an ever-continuing influx of more and more horror stories from these other stations? Unfortunately, yes, Mrs. Barbarian. But let's keep in mind the fact that radio is becoming more keenly aware of our problems as parents who are trying to raise our children to be intelligent adults and citizens, that some of them are thinking in terms of our children's wholesome development. We appreciate the valuable contribution to the child's welfare this one network has made, but I'm sorry to say that it will lose its effectiveness if all the networks and subsidiary stations do not cooperate. I may be unduly optimistic, but I believe this public acknowledgement of responsibility to its child listeners by one network will have to be followed by the others if, and this is a big if, all parents get behind us and use every effort, do everything possible, to see that these other stations do follow suit. While I don't mean to criticize, I feel that too many parents are prone to disregard entirely the programs their children are listening to, provided they are out of the way and are not bothering anyone. And then again, too few parents know what a good program for children really is or should be. It is the duty of each and every one of us to be well informed. Your statement about uninformed parents makes me think of those critics of radio who never take the trouble to listen at all and criticize on hearsay. While I'm not defending radio, I don't think this is fair. You're quite right, both of you. We, the UPA, have been very careful in our listening before we have criticized any program. As a matter of fact, as long as I've been chairman, we have publicly criticized only one. We try to guide our children to learn good listening habits by introducing them to the good shows listed in our guide of radio's best bets for children. All parents who attend our committing meetings thoroughly check and discuss every single one of the listed programs. These must conform to our high standards, which include entertainment value, healthy personality development, ethical and moral values, and so on. Right now, the United Parent Association is planning a series of studies for parents on the proper evaluation of programs for children. We intend to have various educators, people of the radio industry, and others, discuss with us the entire makeup of radio for children. As soon as everything has been arranged, we'll announce the dates they'll be given. May we talk for a minute about the interesting discussion we had recently at one of our meetings? We considered a change in the trend of child listening. We learned that, according to a survey made a short time ago, children are turning more and more to adult programs. We were given actual figures to prove that fewer children were listening to the usual run of fantasy and adventure stories than five years ago. A very large percentage are absorbed in adult programs. Surely that isn't what we want, Mrs. Cosmides. I'd like my child to have all the fun, wholesomeness, and carefree irresponsibility that goes with childhood, and radio listening should help to supply that. Too many of the adult programs repulse even me with their poor content, and my pet peeves are those so-called comedy shows where someone curses and the audience thinks it's funny. I just can't see it. Perhaps our children are maturing more quickly than here to four, or the temple of living has changed their thinking. But whether we like it or not, warriors have quickened their senses. But discussing this question would require an entire broadcast in itself. I will say, though, that this survey only emphasizes the need for some of the suggestions that have been made here today. That while there are some good shows for children, there are not enough of them to hold their interest. This survey would certainly indicate a need for more and better family shows of the type you've mentioned. So that if children do listen to adult or late-hour programs, these should include a wide range of interesting material. Since radio is one of the foremost sources of entertainment to children, it is also one of the most powerful forces influencing their thinking. If we as parents want our children to grow and develop outside the schoolroom, then we must see to it that those outside educative sources are the kind which we approve. You have been listening to a discussion on radio and children by Mrs. Roe Cobert, chairman of the United Parents Association's radio committee, and the two guests, Mrs. Bell Cosmides and Mrs. Estelle Barbarian. If you have any comments or wish a copy of this script, please write to Mrs. Cobert, that is spelled K-O-B-E-R-T, in care of this station, or at UPA headquarters, 289 4th Avenue, New York 10, New York. Next week, the United Parents Associations present as its guest speaker the distinguished Dr. H. H. Giles of the Bureau of Intercultural Education who will talk on survival of democracy. This is the municipal broadcasting system.