Well, ladies and gentlemen, suffice to say there's much to be done, and rather than involve in any personal discussions at this point, I should like to bring up our first guest from the Patrolman's Benevolent Association, Mr. John Carton. Let's give him a hand and bring him up. Here he comes. How do you do? Nice to see you again. Believe me, you are the real reason I'm here tonight. I should have stood in bed. Well, I really appreciate that, and I think most of the policemen in the city of New York have the same sentiment. Thank you very much, Mr. Carton. Did you hear my quill last night? I did. And I'm sure that you have much to say. Suppose you make your rebuttal first, and then let me ask the question. Well, okay. I'll try to start off, and I realize that you're one of the most competent interrogators, and I'll have to rely a great deal upon you. Thank you very much. Well, you want me to ask the questions? I'd like to get one thing off my chest. Go ahead. Go ahead. Thank you. He misinformed the people to, and perhaps many of our younger policemen in the city. You asked him a question as to what he would do with the half million dollars that he contemplates collecting in dues from the 19,000 policemen in the city of New York. At the rate of $250 a month. That's right. He told you that, rather you asked him, if the elected officials of the city of New York failed to act on the problems affecting policemen, what would he do? Since he ordered the police were required to act on the police, and he stated that he would go out as a goodwill ambassador and educate the people of the city of New York on the problems affecting the policemen. And further, he stated that if after such an educational campaign by his union, they did not give to the policemen their just deserts, he would apply that excess money into the political action committee. Well, that's a very serious problem. And most of the people, perhaps in the city of New York and the state, are not conversant with the law. And I'm quite certain that Mike Quill did not consult the law when he made that statement that policemen would go out and contribute. And their money, the money that they paid for their dues, would be used in a political action fund. Well, I'd just like to straighten the people out, and particularly some of the policemen who are not conversant with that section of the law. I'd like to read for you a brief excerpt from the section 752 of the Criminal Penal Code of the State of New York. Any person being a police commissioner or an officer or a member of any police force in the state of New York contributes any money directly or indirectly or solicits, collects or receives any money for any political fund is guilty of a misdemeanor. He'd immediately put the members that he would like to represent right in the position of violating the penal code of the state of New York. Tell me, sir, what has the, why has the PBA been formed, when was it formed, and what have they done to date? Briefly, Barry, the PBA, Patrolman's Benevolent Association, was formed in the year of 1894. It has served the needs of policemen since that time. And just in the last few years, since July 1st of 1947, since I've had the honor of serving as president for the 19,000 policemen, we have been successful in gaining for them 76 improvements in the department. You do agree with Mr. Quill in the, in the fact that the police department is underpaid? Uh, I'd rather put it another way, Barry, that, uh, Mr. Quill agrees with us that the policemen are underpaid. He is really getting on the bandwagon after, uh, people like yourself and other commentators, public-spirited citizens and bodies, uh, in New York, uh, after the PBA has acquainted you with the facts, giving you statistics and so forth. Uh, they got behind us because we fully realized we appealed to the people. We know that they, in the final analysis, are our true boss. What, for what reason do you believe Mr. Quill has entered the police field and attempted to unionize it? Uh, his, uh, failures with the transit workers' employees, the people whom he represents. He's run up against a blank wall. Uh, in, uh, former years, he gained a great deal as, uh, a result of threats of strikes. But he's, uh, up against an entirely different setup with Mayor Vincent Impeletary down there. And Vincent Impeletary refused to even meet with him until such time that he withdrew the threats that he used in former years. How do you account for the fact that he has already accumulated, by his own statement, 9,000 members of the police department? Uh, that is a lie, and I challenge him on it. How many do you believe he has? We are certain that he has won. And that individual is a defeated candidate for the presidency of the PBA in the last election. Just one? Just one? Just one that has actually paid his dues. What do you think of his statement that in the event the patrolmen join and the police officers, and the organization fails to get a raise, that he will not ask them to strike? Uh, he, uh, required the transit employees who are also civil service employees, and who will come under the provisions of the No Strike Condon Wadlin Act state statute. He had them sign a similar pledge. Uh, however, if you recall, going back a few years, every time that he sat down to attempt to arbitrate or negotiate with the city officials, he started off first with the threat of strike. What do you think of Mr. Quill's removing of the police records, uh, the police records from the TWU office to outside the state to avoid a subpoena? I, uh, I, uh, I, uh, noticed that there's other groups in the, uh, city of New York who are also going underground. But I think he should converse with counsel. And I believe it's third degree forgery. I see a few counsels out here, uh, to remove the records of any organization. The New York Herald Tribune tonight, our sponsor, makes the point that, uh, sure, the police officers' wages should be raised, but they also make the point that Quill is not the man to do it. And they point to his background politically, as does the New York Daily Mirror. Uh, do you believe that, uh, Quill has been a communist or a pro-communist in the past? We, in the police department, have had an opportunity, uh, to follow the, uh, activities of Michael Quill. And from the records that we have access to, and from standing at various communist meetings in the past number of years throughout the city, and listening to him, I, it is my, uh, it is my opinion, and I feel, the majority of the men in the police department, that Quill was a communist. Is there any way of proving this? There, uh, is a way of proving it, uh, through, uh, his former associates. I understand from the records that individuals have testified that he paid to them their dues in the Communist Party. Quill says that he is responsible for getting the city to pass the pension raise. What have you got to say about that? Uh, his advisers know very little about the problems affecting policemen. Uh, as soon as we took office, we employed our own actuary for the purpose of studying the pension system. Uh, and, uh, it was last August that the PBA was successful in getting Councilman Cunningham from Brooklyn, and Councilman Cunningham, uh, Vogel from Brooklyn, and Cunningham from the Bronx, to introduce the legislation that was finally passed by a vote of 23 to 1. It passed the Council and was then submitted to the, uh, Vortif Estimate. And, uh, it is at the present time been referred back for minor corrections to the City Council. Uh, forgetting about Quill for a moment, Mr. Carton, what does the PBA want for its members? What does the PBA want for its members in the way of higher wages and so on? It wants the Board of Estimates, the Board of Estimates through the Mayor. And, uh, I'd like to thank the Mayor for initiating the, uh, present action. And the, uh, the Board of Estimates has promised publicly through statements made by His Honor the Mayor to take immediate action on our pension bills, which will affect 11,500 young policemen that are now in the department. It will reduce their pension contributions, which have been exceptionally high, by 44%. What do you think will be the outcome of this, uh, this hassle between the PBA, the city officials, and the proposed union? Well, the city officials stepped in only yesterday. But we in the police department, the PBA, feel that we already had beaten Mike Quill. And as a, uh, illustration of that, I'd like to point to the fact that at a meeting only yesterday, the city, 329 delegates representing the 19,000 policemen, went on record, giving a vote of confidence to the President and the Board of Officers of the PBA, and also pledging the entire resources of the PBA, behind the Board of Officers in their fight with Mike Quill and his rating of membership in the police department. And in addition to that, they also condemned what they called traitors to the cause and the welfare of policemen. Mr. Carton, what is the feeling of the rank and file of the police department about, uh, this proposed union? The, uh, consensus of opinion in the police department is overwhelmingly against Mike Quill. Now, unionization, the study of unionization, is now at the present time, and has been for the past number of months, in the hands of the President and the Board of Officers of the PBA. Now, I'd like to mention this to you, Barry. We had trouble similar to what we're having at the present time. There's certain times in the history of the city when it's, takes longer to move the Board of Estimates or educate them and the people as to the problems affecting policemen. We had it back in 1920. We had a real tough city administration that would refuse to listen to the problems affecting policemen. At that time, the President, the late Joseph P. Moran, a man whom we like to call the father of the PBA, he went to Samuel Gompers. And, uh, that's right, the father of AF of L. And, uh, he placed his problem, the problem of unionization of policemen before Sam Gompers. Sam Gompers sat down with Joe Moran, and he said, Joe, listen, I am unalterably opposed to the unionization of policemen for these reasons. He said, you know, Joe, we're constantly as labor men fighting with capitalists and industrialists. But we know that once we have a local policeman, in there is the referee, capital and the industrialists, and the laboring man will get a fair shake. But, if you associate with us, you're going to be a poor referee, you're going to be a poor empire. Every move you make, there's going to be an ulterior motive attached to it. We don't want to place the people of that city in a position, particularly the elected officials of the city, that every time a strike occurs in the city of New York, that the mayor will have to call upon the governor to send in the National Guard to police the strike area. We'd rather deal with our own people, cops that are born and brought up in the city of New York, and know the problems affecting the working man. But you can rest assured, Sam Gompers said to Joe, and as long as there's an AFFL, and the policemen of the city of New York ever require their aid or assistance, they will always have it 100%. Recently, I've been with the President of the Central Trades and Labor Council, which represents over a million AFFL employees of all trades in the greater New York area. Martin T. Lacey. I went to him, asked him what his opinion was. I also asked him what advantages the policeman would receive as a result of becoming affiliated with the union, whether it be a CIO or the AFFL. Here's what Marty Lacey told me, man that spent all his life as a labor leader. He said, Johnny, you go back and tell the policeman, they will not do labor any good, nor will they do themselves any good, by affiliating with labor, whether it be CIO or the AFFL. And in regard to the representatives of the CIO, Mr. Hollander, Phil Murray, Bill Green, every time that the policemen of the city of New York, the four years that I've been President, and I've had to call upon them for aid and support, each and every one of them through the full weight of their organizations behind our problems. Now, if we affiliate with one, as you know yourself, Barry, labor is divided right down the middle between AFFL and CIO. The only place where there's any unity between them is here in the city of New York, and that's only at a time of an election. Otherwise, the rivalries run high. Mr. Carton, let me ask you about yourself. You are a police officer. I have been an active policeman in the city of New York for 23 years. I've worked in, I'm broken in, down there in Chinatown and in the Bowery. I've worked in Harlem for four years, and I've worked in the Bronx on foot and radio patrol. I've been honored by the department, a member of the Honor Legion, and I've been injured in the line of duty on three different occasions. It's always been an honor to serve the city of New York. I have full confidence that the people, once they're informed of the facts, and the problems affecting policemen, will stand by their policemen as they have all down through the past 58 years. Mr. Carton, do you receive a salary as the president of the PBA? I do not receive a salary as the president of the PBA. I do not receive a salary as the president of the police conference of the state of New York, and I do not receive a salary as the president of the National Police Conference of the United States. In other words? In other words? I receive expenses from the PBA, amounting to $6,000, personal expenses of $6,000 a year, and I receive a first grade patrolman salary from the city of New York of $4,400. I'm very happy that you brought this out, Mr. Carton. Are there any remarks that you care to make in summation? I, in the past four years, I've been in a great many fights. I've had occasion on behalf of the policemen to take on the governor, the legislators in Albany. I've been to Washington fighting down there for them. I've taken on the mayor, members of the board of estimate, and the city council. But there's no better fight I enjoy than this fight that we're now going through and throwing my quill out of the police department. It's a pleasure, and I don't mind working day and night for it. Thank you very much, sir, and good luck to you. Thank you. Thank you, Barry. You've been a great help. Thank you.