This is an historic moment for the people of Staten Island. We are present at the launching of a new ferryboat that will be followed by two more ferryboats. These new boats will be superior to the boats now in service. They will be more spacious, more comfortable, and faster. They will accommodate more passengers, and we need them badly. We are glad that these boats are being built in this local yard of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, thus providing work for many of our local residents. Also, it is here that our great fleet of ferryboats has been built almost without exception since 1904, and they have made history. Our ferryboats must travel over five miles of water in all kinds of weather during wartimes or peacetimes, and must maintain schedule. The people of Staten Island that have used these boats have confidence in the boats built by the Bethlehem Steel Corporation. The record speaks for itself. We are happy that Mayor O'Dwyer has honored us by naming this first new ferryboat after our outstanding hero of World War II, Private First Class Joseph F. Merrill. We are happy, too, that his sister, Miss Muriel Harvey, has been selected by Commissioner Cavanaugh and Mayor O'Dwyer to christen his boat. Only we in Richmond Borough know the importance of our ferry service. It not alone serves the third largest borough with a population of 200,000 people, but it is a throughway to the heart of Manhattan from all points south, coming into our island from the Outer Bridge Crossing and the Gothel Bridge Crossing. The census has shown that we have increased in population 10% since 1940. We can expect a tremendous growth in population in the next 10 years, which means that we must meet this growth and the borough and the through travel with adequate ferry service. One of the greatest exhibitions of alertness anywhere. There she goes! There she goes! Now we all get wet! What a beautiful sight that is as she glides into the Kilgand Club. What a beautiful sight we'll be when it's all over! Now she's fully in the new days! fully launched and the complete hull is in the waters of the Kilvan Cove. That's a beautiful sound. Now Mr. Hildebrand's holding a little meaning as about curtailing these services because really the weather is terrible. Commissioner Cavanaugh. Ladies and gentlemen, Commander Ralph Sullivan. Mrs.Зawama HP at frequency andńsk. Let us show you how we ride.уляis The traveling ship. Yeah,혜RIM. Instagram And there were lots of nice pination standard.