Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the heads of city departments just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Building, and Chairman of the Committee on Air Raid Shelters. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening. Once again, I have as my guest on this civil defense program, Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Building of the City of New York. Commissioner Gilroy, in addition to his regular municipal duties, is also Chairman of the very important Committee on Air Raid Shelters. We can be sure of a very enlightening interview. Commissioner Gilroy, suppose you start right in with the business at hand. Thank you, Commissioner. Tonight I'm going to report on the work of the Committee on Shelters appointed a few months ago by you. Immediately after the first group was appointed under General Farrell, meetings were held, and the full literature on the effects of the atomic bomb explosion were obtained. The New York Office of the Atomic Energy Commission was visited for consultation with their informed personnel, and Admiral Blandy, who had charge of the Bikini and Inuatuck atom bomb burst, was consulted. Well, that's fine. What was the result of these preparations and meetings, Mr. Gilroy? Well, Commissioner, the Committee on Shelters concluded that any cover was preferable to remaining in the open under a bomb attack. The committee promptly prepared a series of recommendations to the public, and the press of this city cooperated fully in giving these recommendations wide publicity. On the committee at the time were an Army Major General, closely identified with the development of the A-bomb, a retired Rear Admiral of the United States Navy who was present at Bikini and Inuatuck, a former Army Colonel who spent three years in London during the Blitz, and who bears the scars of one bombing, the Chief Engineer of a large public utility, and two additional experienced engineers. Just how effective will the recommendations of the bomb shelter committee be? Well, serious as the present condition in which we have been placed may be, we can come through any attack if we are determined to meet whatever may come, if we avoid hysteria and panic, and if we discipline ourselves to the extent that we obey orders and directions. First, it is imperative to our future well-being to follow the directions and recommendations issued by those whose responsibility it is to ensure that recommendations and directions are the result of careful study by experienced and able men who have been and are devoting long hours in the interest of their fellow citizens and whose sole compensation is the knowledge that their work may benefit others. Well, Commissioner Gilroy, I think one of the most important things that you've mentioned in that statement of yours is that the need for obeying instructions that are issued by the Civil Defense Authorities. You know that one of our chief concerns is the avoidance of hysteria and panic in times of real emergencies, and we can't stress that too much, so I'm glad you mentioned that. And now will you please tell our listeners something about the Committee on Shelters. Who is on the committee? Commissioner, the first chairman of the Committee on Shelters was Major General Thomas J. Farrell, who was one of the principal workers on the atom bomb project under General Grove. General Farrell established an enviable record in World War II and World War I, and has recently retained to active duty in the present emergency. I have since been appointed chairman and have expanded the Shelter Committee to 33 men, each recognized as able and experienced in his field. It was my intention to name each member of the committee and to give a brief resume of his background and experience, but I realize that time will not permit this. Well then, Commissioner Gilroy, would you mind telling our audience how the Shelter Committee functions? Yes. These 33 men were divided into various subcommittees to expedite recommendations on various phases of our shelter problems. The work assigned to those subcommittees is as follows. First, to recommend in existing buildings, to render them more safe for their occupants in the event of a bomb attack, and to consider the advisability of recommending legislation, if deemed necessary and justified, to make it mandatory to provide such protection. You'll like to know some of the matters considered by this committee, Commissioner. New York, especially Manhattan, has a large number of skyscrapers and other multi-story commercial buildings of fireproof construction, each housing a large number of workers, some housing several thousands. It is essential that the occupants do not leave these buildings on receipt of an attack alarm or during or immediately after an attack. Well, I'm very glad to hear you emphasize that, Commissioner Gilroy. What are some of the recommendations of the committee? First, we say we're safer undercover. Also, were evacuation of such buildings attempted at one time, the streets would not contain the persons. Panic would ensue and the loss of life would be great and many thousands would be injured. Interior and closed areas such as corridors have been recommended as shelter areas. Many such buildings have air raid wardens designated whose duty it will be to instruct occupants to go to such shelter areas calmly but quickly. This subcommittee is preparing recommendations to make these shelters safer for our citizens. Residence buildings such as apartment houses, tenements, rooming houses, etc. will likewise be covered with consideration of the types of construction. Now, what are some of the other duties of the committee? Among the other duties, to recommend the construction of bomb blast resistant structures of types at detainments and at locations considered most necessary in the public interest. This subcommittee is considering peacetime uses for such structures also. The subcommittee is confronted with several problems, Commissioner. The subcommittee is considered to be a property of a public bomb shelter, and within most areas likely to be targets is limited, even though it were decided to place them in public parks, plazas or squares, in areas of heavy pedestrian, bus and automobile traffic. Public shelters, if such a deem necessary, need be within short travel from all parts of the areas saved if they are to accomplish their purpose. Size, extent of resistance to bombing, combined with war and peacetime use, construction above or below ground, are important factors to be considered to say nothing of cost. Well, that's interesting, Commissioner Gilroy. I see where the federal government is in their proposed bill, which is passed the House and comes before the Senate today. I don't know what action was taken on today, but I believe it will be passed by them and be signed by the President probably tomorrow or the following day. They, in their appropriations, recommend some $2.25 billion, which will go a long way towards setting up shelters throughout the country. We're looking forward to a sizable portion of that so that we can go ahead and cover some of our highly congested areas and also protect those people in the tenement areas where there's such a great need for it. Now, Commissioner, will you tell me any other duties that the Shelter Committee performs? Yes. Another subcommittee was charged with studying the needs of those, the occupants of those buildings, usually commercial structures that offered practically no resistance to a bomb blast, even a light one. Now, this subcommittee seeks to come up with a solution to the problem of reasonable protection for persons in industrial buildings of such light construction, and probably not more than one or two stories in height without basement or cellar. These are not generally in districts of dense population, incidentally. Well, of course, we have to make important decisions on these matters, and it's something for the Shelter Committee to resolve before long, I'm quite sure, and I know that you're working on that. Yeah, we're coming rapidly to final decisions on those matters. Now, in order not to be caught short, we looked ahead, and another problem we seek to help out on is to devise suitable housing for those who, in an emergency, might be evacuated. A particular stress is being placed on buildings which may be readily salvaged for peacetime use in other localities. While at the moment it is not thought probable that it will be necessary to erect housing for evacuees either on the outskirts of the city or outside of New York City, the city administration insists on being prepared for any eventuality. Should it develop later that such is necessary, it will be accomplished more economically and expeditiously if a plan is ready. Uh, well, while time does not permit you to name all of the members of the Shelter Committee, suppose you give us a list of the occupations and professions that are represented there, Commissioner Gilroy. Well, uh, Commissioner, in addition to those I've already mentioned, the committee includes architects, structural engineers, sanitary engineers, contractors, contractors, construction engineers, and construction contractors, heating and ventilating engineers and contractors, one of whom, during World War II, was advisor to the British government on air raid shelters and their ventilation. We have also real estate managers, electrical contractors, and the editor of one of our best-known technical magazines, who covered both the Bikini and Antewetak explosion of bomb tests. Again, I regret, Commissioner, that lack of time precludes giving the names and the backgrounds and accomplishments of these unselfish men. The problems confronting the committee are numerous. It's clear that what is indicated as necessary or desirable for the heavily populated skyscraper areas of the city differ radically from the needs of the outlying more or less sparsely populated areas. We stress that each and every person owes it to himself and to his city to exercise every precaution within reason to protect himself and those dependent on him. Well, that I'm sure is quite sound and is the advice that we've been passing out. This is very good advice, as a matter of fact, Commissioner. Tell us more. I think it is too, Commissioner. No, there's neither bravery nor nobility in belittling protective measures and in proclaiming that you will do nothing to protect yourself and others because you have no fear. If it comes, it comes, so what? Oh, that's just bravado. That's not bravery. Caution isn't fear. We appeal to all to follow recommendations made in their interests for their welfare and in the public interest. The fewer persons who are the victims of a bombing, the more help there is available for those unfortunates who are victims. The better we are prepared for an attack, the less likely we are to be attacked. It has been heartening to have those responsible for our school children seek advice and help in choosing those portions of school buildings offering the best shelter areas within their school buildings. Public, parochial, and private schools have availed themselves of the offer of assistance by the Civil Defense Organization of this city. Much has been done. Much remains to be done. The Committee on Shelters is at the service of the people of this city. Recommendations of the various subcommittees will be forwarded as received to you, Commissioner Wallander, and I know they will be promptly and carefully received by your Cabinet Committee, and after which they will be released as approved, are approved. Commissioner Gilroy, a while back you gave us an imposing list of the occupations and professions of the men who make up the Bombshelter Committee. These men and many others have given freely of their time and effort to help their fellow man. If these men can spare part of their time for the civil offense effort, I think that everyone should enroll for volunteer duty. We need recruits in our auxiliary police and fire corps, air warden service, or the medical and the welfare emergency divisions of our civil offense forces. And as a matter of fact, this is everybody's fight, and civil offense is everybody's business, and everybody should get into it. So that the more recruits we have, the better we're able to protect not only our relatives, our families, our neighbors, and ourselves, but everyone that might be around. Everyone should be a first aider, as a matter of fact. Thank you very much, Commissioner Gilroy. This has been another in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Building, who is chairman of the Committee on Air Raid Shelters. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.