Good morning, Judge Kaplan. We are so pleased to welcome you as our guest today and would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your recent appointment to the bench. Thank you, Mr. Shapiro. It is a privilege to be your guest. I am particularly glad to have been invited to participate during this week, which has been designated by the mayor of our city as United Parents Week. May I take this opportunity to congratulate the UPA for the fine job it is doing on behalf of the schoolchildren in New York City. It is encouraging to know that thousands of parents are actively concerned with the education of their children. Well, thank you, Judge. I know that our listeners will appreciate your kind wishes. One of the major purposes of UPA, as you know, is to train parents so that they can raise sound, healthy, wholesome children, children's sound of mind as well as body. Although we have met with great success in reaching thousands of parents with our programs, we are nonetheless alarmed at the large number of cases of truancy and delinquency prevalent today among our adolescents. What do you think, Judge Kaplan, are the positive factors of delinquency? The answer, Mr. Shapiro, is not a simple one. There are numerous causes. Some are sociological and some are psychiatric. However, you can generally hold slum conditions, poverty, poor houses, broken homes, incompatibility, emotional conflict, and family instability, and lack of parent education responsible for the majority of causes of delinquency. In order to correct the problem, then, it would be necessary to erase all of the causes, which, of course, is no easy matter and requires long-term planning. It would be helpful to know what immediate measures are being employed to deal with these excesses. In your experience as chairman of New York City's youth board judge, can you tell us what efforts are being made in this direction and how successful they are? Well, there are many things being done to help solve the problem. First, let me say that the city and state have equally contributed a total of about 2,400,000 for the youth board program of prevention, which, of course, is experimental in nature, and the first comprehensive program to deal with prevention. The board has selected 11 areas in New York City which statistics prove to have the greatest incidence of delinquency. We feel that delinquency can best be curbed when caught in its earliest stages. Therefore, if we can get at the root of the matter early enough and determine the cause, we can very often be of assistance to the child and the family. For this purpose, in these 11 areas, we have set up referral units. A unit consists of a trained supervisor and four trained social workers. Well, what precisely are their responsibilities, Judge? Well, let us say, Mr. Chichiro, that a particular teacher has difficulty with the child and is at loss as to how to treat with the situation. She can call on the unit of the youth board and request that a representative get the child's background or case history. After this is determined, the child is referred to the proper agency for treatment. This service relieves the teacher of the burden of handling a case for which she may not be equipped. Another service the youth board performs is the granting of additional recreation facilities. We believe that recreation is a good, wholesome approach to the development of normal, healthy children. And so we have contributed about $600,000 to the Board of Education to enable it to open additional recreation centers in these difficult areas. Well, I agree that plenty of play space is essential for our adolescents. But isn't this just one phase of a much larger problem? What do you do, for example, for children who lack security and support at home? Well, in such cases, we call in the existing social agencies who try to help the family. If it is a question of poverty, relief is helped as ministers. If it involves psychiatric care, funds are available for such services. The youth board also takes into consideration the needs of children who are not emotionally able to adjust to large groups. For these children, smaller groups are playing. How, Judge Kaplan, would you say the youth board deals with parents of delinquent children? Well, the referral unit workers attempt to help the parents understand their responsibilities for the child. Where possible, they are urged to use the available social agency. The responsibility it is to diagnose the reasons for neglect and recommend the steps necessary for a change in attitude. Only where the authoritative power of the court is indicated are children referred to children's court. In some states, parents are punished or jailed for neglect. Do you think this solves the problem at all? I certainly do not as a general rule. While we have the power in the state of New York to do so, it is apparent. These parents are usually products of social conditions and need help from society rather than punishment. Well, what do you do when neglect is due to factors other than poverty? When neglect is due to emotional disturbances, parents are referred for hospitalization or other treatment. In some cases, and only as a last resort, removal of the children from the home is essential. There is certainly a great deal to be done on the part of all of us if we ought to succeed in removing this blot on our society. Judge Kaplan, do you believe the school can help where the home fails to give the child that needed sense of feeling wanted, that feeling of security? Of course, Mr. Shapiro. The school can never substitute completely for the home. But very often, an understanding teacher can in some measure substitute for the parent's failure. The child needs that sense of security and may cling to an understanding teacher. Well, many teachers are willing to help children in need but find themselves unable to assist because of the burden of the large class size and the many extra-clerical duties. In addition, not all teachers are specially trained to handle problems of this nature. What you say is true. However, it would be highly desirable to have smaller classes, especially in difficult areas, as well as greater guidance facilities. It would also be desirable to have the school conduct parent education courses wherever possible. Well, I certainly agree with you there, for we do not question the great need for parents to learn how they can best meet their responsibilities to their children. From my short experience in the family court, there is no doubt that education of parents must be undertaken on a larger scale, first in preparation for marriage itself, and then in the task of preparing their children for citizenship in a democracy. Well, who is to take this responsibility, Judge Kaplan? Well, I know that the UPA is already doing its share. However, it is important that the UPA, together with the New York education system, the social agencies, and all those concerned with children, cooperate in reaching all parents. Unless we do this, we fail in our obligation not only to today's children, but to the generations to come. The hopeful sign in the close relationship now established between the UPA and the Board of Education, this bond must be continued and strengthened in order to obtain our objective, the growth and development of sound, intelligent citizens. Well, thank you so much, Judge Kaplan, for being our guest today. You know that we shall continue to serve the children of the city of New York in even greater measure than ever before. Thank you. Thank you.
