Well, the Christian Greysky Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Through health we may cement human relationships, that thy true cause for universal brotherhood and peace shall prosper here and throughout the national and worldwide community. In thy name and for thy glory alone we pray. Amen. Will you please remain standing and will the sanitation band play the national anthem? For volunteers come to scrutine by a ark and all the possessions from the 되게 tout. It is like an eternity in ¶¶ Ladies and gentlemen, many years ago, a very wise city government and some rather far-thinking, far-distant planning health officers evolved the program of health centers for the city of New York. Therefore, this health center idea represents now, as it did then, the best method which could be conceived to bring good health service to the people of the city. That idea has flourished since 1922, when the original building here in Harlem, East Harlem, was opened. It is continuing to give the best possible type of service to the people of this district. As the years go on, it becomes necessary for us to realign and revamp the program. But the basic principle of the health center as the most effective means of bringing to the people of this district the best that we have in health protection still holds good. One of the principal defenders, one of the principal supports of this program has been the borough president of Manhattan, the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, who will speak to you now. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. your city government has, your mayor and the board of estimate, is to find the necessary funds to do many of the things that we need. We know that we need health centers of this type, better schools, better housing, more playground facilities. But you do, and I am sure must know, that everything is being done humanly possible to make life better for our people in all parts of our borough and all parts of our city, and that's why we're proud and we're grateful to our city that we can once again reopen this health center which will bring happiness and security and help to those who come to it for assistance. It's not merely the beautiful edifice that means so much. The brick and the mortar, of course, go into creating the building, but it's the services and the kindness of those people who will staff this building that will mean much for its success and much for the people of this great section of our town. We are grateful. We do know that here is another living proof that we here in New York and in America, under our democratic form of government, can make democracy work for all and to bring to all of our people the necessary assistance so that they may be healthy and that we can bring up our children as good, healthy children to be the leaders in this country of the future. We are grateful today, and we are proud that we here in this section can have this beautiful building and the services that go with it. We are grateful to our city, to the Commissioner of Borough Works and his staff for their work, and to Commissioner Mahoney and his great department for what they are doing here and have done and will do for all of our people who look to us for assistance in these very troublesome and unstable times. Thank you very, very much. Thank you, President Wagner. Thank you, President. of men and women able to carry on work of this type, which is, in the last analysis, rather highly specialized. Your next speaker represents the educational side of the East Harlem Health Center. It gives me a good deal of pleasure to introduce to you Dr. Ralph Snyder, the Assistant Dean of the New York Medical College. Dr. Snyder. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Mahoney, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to be able to be present at this ceremony dedicating the East Harlem District Health Center. The far-sightedness of the officials of the City of New York in developing and constantly expanding the health services devoted to the care and the protection of the City's population has long been recognized throughout the world. The City, too, has recognized the fact that any new and modern physical plant devoted to the care of human beings is only as efficient and valuable as the professional staff which makes use of that physical plant. The New York Medical College has, throughout its long history, been closely allied with many city institutions. Many years ago, we at the college recognized the responsibility which each and every physician owes to his community in protecting the general welfare and the health of each citizen. A program was worked out in conjunction with the Department of Health of the City of New York so that the doctors we train might receive the very best clinical instruction available in the field of public health. The facilities of the East Harlem District Health Center have been made available to the New York Medical College for this purpose. The City of New York has contributed greatly, not only to the welfare of its own citizens, but has contributed to the welfare of people all over the world through this program. Doctors graduate from the New York Medical College and scatter to the far corners of the world, but no matter where they may go, they remain secure in the knowledge that their training has been the best that any city or any college working together could give them. But the City of New York has not been content to rest comfortably on its laurels. Rather, it has constantly endeavored to improve and expand the facilities available for its people. And today, we are here to dedicate this new East Harlem District Health Center, which houses the most modern equipment available. The problem of tropical diseases with our constantly expanding and intermingling population has been recognized by the establishment of the new Tropical Disease Laboratory. The development of the new Cancer Detection Center will bring closer the victory over one of the greatest killers of all. We at the New York Medical College are proud to be a part of this program devoted to the people of the City of New York. And we pledge ourselves to continued cooperation in keeping with the high ideals and motives long established by the City of New York. I thank you. Thank you, Dr. Snyder. I wonder if now you will join with us in a moment of prayer led by the rabbi, Elias Solomon of the Young Men Hebrew Association. Dr. Solomon. Thank you. Father of mercy, look down from thy holy habitation on this center dedicated to the noble purpose of healing the afflicted of thy children. Thou art the divine healer, the source of goodness and mercy, and thou hast implanted in our hearts the spirit of compassion for all living things. Grant that all men become aware of their common brotherhood and feel for their suffering fellows, regardless of race, color, and creed, and recognize that all men brothers be. All men thy children, even as thy prophet exhorts us, have we not all one father? Hath not one God created us? Bless these our leaders, lay and clerical, who set the pace and example for all of us in the field of humanitarian endeavor. Bout save thy protection, to our beloved country. Grant wisdom to the heads of our government, national, state, and municipal, and happiness to all its inhabitants. Render thou effective, we pray thee, the deliberations and labors of the United Nations to the end that the world may be firmly and surely set on the road to peace, prosperity, and salvation. forevermore. Amen. Amen. The history of the city of New York is largely that of recurring waves of migrations of people, all activated by exactly the same motive. In coming to America America and in coming to New York to improve their status and life. Those various waves of migration have left their imprint upon the present city. Many of the men in public life today have sprung from the first great wave of migration, which was the Irish, followed by the German, then the Jewish, then the Italian, and each one contributing an enormous amount and making an enormous contribution to the government and the welfare of the great city. We are now in the midst of another wave of migration. Into the portals of this building which we are opening today will pass Puerto Rican and Negro youngsters who may in themselves or who may give rise to the future officials of the city of New York. There is no way which we can underestimate the potential of these various waves of migrations of people which come into the greater city, all of which leave their mark upon it. It now gives me great pleasure to introduce to you Dr. Raphael A. Marine of the Mayor's Committee on Puerto Rican Affairs. Dr. Marine. Commissioner Mahoney, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, some 25 or so years ago we were fortunate enough to have this health center established in our neighborhood. As a matter of fact, it was the first health center ever established in the city of New York. I'm certain that the men and women who made this selection were well aware at that time of the social and economic conditions which made the establishment of such a center necessary and even urgent. During those many years, under the leadership of doctors like Dr. Rabinov and other distinguished health officers, the center became a vital part of the neighborhood. Slowly but steadily, the people of the neighborhood began to realize that in the staff of the center they have friends, patient friends, understanding friends who we must admit were faced with problems entirely different from the ones they were used to. The motley complexion of the neighborhood, the language difficulties made it not an easy job for the members of the staff to try to give service to the neighborhood and to solve the plenty problems both medical and even social that come up in an institution like this. Today, we have a renovated center, a much larger center. Its services have been expanded, new services have been added. It is now associated with a medical school. We could almost say that this is a miniature medical center. center. And as a member of the people of this neighborhood, I want to tell, I want to say to all those who had anything to do with the reopening of the center that the people of this neighborhood are very grateful and that they are well aware of the gift which has been made to them. I have this to say to the people of the neighborhood. A center like this cannot really be a success unless the people of the neighborhood lend it all its cooperation. It is necessary that the people realize the many services which of which they can avail themselves in such a center. It is important that they come to this center before it is too late. In this center we have one of the most progressive institutions today when it comes to such things as curative and preventive medicine in the field of diseases, venereal diseases, in the field of cancer, in the field of tuberculosis and in other medical fields. I therefore wish to express to all our thanks for such a reopening. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Marine. In bringing into being a building of this kind it is a relatively simple matter for the medical staff of the health department to put on paper the many things which they desire to have in order to function smoothly and effectively in the medical field. It remains, however, for a different department of the city government to bring that building into being. in this respect the city of New York is extremely fortunate and I'm sure the Department of Health is extremely fortunate in having associated with it in the city government a Department of Public Works which is keenly alive to the needs of the health department and keenly aware of the function they serve in bringing these needs into being. it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present to you the Commissioner of Department of Public Works the Honorable Frederick H. Zermuller. Dr. Mahoney, Reverend clergy, Mr. Deputy Mayor, Mr. Board President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and children. I particularly stress the children because I know that many of these doctors can talk to you grown-ups better than I can. Somewheres in my reading life, I've read a book by Samuel Butler and its name was Erwan. Now, if you pronounce or spell that word, you would find that it is the word nowhere spelled backwards. And in that book, he describes a mythical land in which the greatest crime against society in that land was to be in poor health. If you didn't take care of your health in Erwan, you were put in jail. And that's one of the reasons why we build these health centers. To be put in jail for being in poor health would be an amusing idea, but it is true that a person who neglects his health, if he has the means and the opportunity to take care of it, is neglecting not only his own best interests, but he is neglecting the interests of his family, the ones whom he holds dear, and also of the society in which he lives. As a result of poor health, he must be absent from work, his income is affected, his family is affected, and the whole society loses the benefit of his productive capacity. Now, this applies particularly in the case of communicable diseases. The interest of society in that case is very obvious. These health centers are preventative medicine, as I understand it, and while I'm an engineer, if I were a doctor, I think my interest would be in preventive medicine. For health centers such as we are dedicating here today, are the evidence of the deep concern which your city has as the agent of society in a great metropolis. It is evidence of the great interest the city manifests in the health of its people. Health centers such as this are physical proof visible proof that each of us is affected if any of us suffer or can be prevented from suffering. I hope that all you good people will take full advantage of the facilities of this up-to-date health center. There is available here the very latest techniques in preventative medicine so that all who desire them have the opportunity to take care of their health in their own interest and the interest of their society in general. I congratulate the health department on this completion of this center and I have the pleasure of turning over to the deputy mayor at this time the key to the building and that ends our job in the department of public works. Thank you. Now it gives me great pleasure to introduce to you the deputy mayor of the city Mr. Charles Parleby. Commissioner Mahoney Reverend clergy borough president Wagner commissioner Zermuelen other distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen standing here in the shadow of the great James Weldon Johnson housing project which represents one of many thousands of housing units erected by the city of New York for the health convenience and comfort of its people and standing in the shadow also of this great structure as the official representative of Mayor Vincent Impeletari I deem it a great pleasure and a privilege to participate with you in the dedication of the enlarged health center which is being opened here today. I bring you the very warm and personal greetings of Mayor Impeletari and express to you his keen personal regret and his inability to be with you this afternoon but you may be assured that in spirit he is with you and that he will continue his efforts and renew with vigor the fight that is being made to relieve the conditions in this city that call for the construction of more health centers of this type and character. Commissioner Mahoney has alluded to the fact that in this gathering are many whose place of origin is the great country of Puerto Rico. Today I bring to you from the far distant shores of Puerto Rico a message of the governor of Puerto Rico who likewise I am sure is with us in spirit today. He writes to Mayor Impeletari as follows. My dear Mayor Impeletari it is with real interest and pleasure that I learned that the New York City Department of Health is opening its remodeled and greatly enlarged district health center in East Harlem at ceremonies on Monday October 27, 1952. We are interested because we know that this district health center service serves the health needs of more than 200,000 persons of whom approximately 70,000 are New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin. We know that the East Harlem District Health Center gives child health service, tuberculosis services, social hygiene services, health education, nutrition education, and many other services designed to protect and promote the health and well-being of the residents of East Harlem. Certainly I, as governor of Puerto Rico, want to urge all of the New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin who live in this district to take full advantage of the services of your Department of Health and that which it offers, and also to urge all of them to cooperate and work with the Department of Health in protecting and promoting the health of themselves and all New Yorkers. I know that the people of Puerto Rico join with me in recognizing the opening of this magnificent district health center as but one sign of the enduring friendship and understanding that exists between the people of New York and the people of our island. Cordially yours, Luis Minos Marin, governor of Puerto Rico. Thirty-one years ago, a program was begun on this site, which has grown and spread to every section of our city. In 1921, the East Harlem Health Center was opened here. It was the first of what has become the citywide system of health centers of the Department of Health. Those centers now bring the many services of our Department of Health directly to the people of the city in their own neighborhood. When it was opened, the East Harlem Health Center was described as a pioneer experiment in the development of local cooperation in matters of health involving citizens, voluntary health and welfare organizations, and the Department of Health. One of the purposes of that pioneer effort was to measure the value of such cooperation. The value of that program which began here has been tremendous and it is still growing. Since the first health center was opened 30 years ago, we have made tremendous strides in improving and in maintaining the health of the people of our city. Those strides have been made under the guidance and leadership of your Department of Health. health. The public imagination is caught and held by reports about new wonder drugs such as penicillin and the antibiotics. I would like you to realize that some of the achievements of your health department in the last 30 years have been as dramatic, as striking, as anything achieved by the discovery of any new wonder drug. Let me take just two examples, diphtheria and typhoid. In 1921, the year the East Harlem Health Center was opened, more than 15,000 New York City children were stricken by diphtheria. Almost 900 of them died. So far this year, there have been but 14 cases of diphtheria and exactly one death from that disease. many of us here are old enough to remember when diphtheria was the most dread scourge of childhood, when every year thousands of children were stricken and hundreds died. Today, and this is largely due to the leadership and work of the Department of Health, diphtheria has been all but eradicated from our city. Now let us talk of typhoid fever. In 1921, 899 persons were hit by that disease. 123 of them died. So far this year, there have been only 82 cases and not a single typhoid death. This disease, too, has yielded to the constant vigilance and to the never-ceasing work of your Department of Health. I could go on citing achievement after achievement of your health department, but there are still big health problems which face our city and our people. Ours was one of the first cities to undertake a systematic fight against tuberculosis. That fight has not yet been won, but the ravages of the disease have been reduced, and this fight, like those against diphtheria and typhoid, will ultimately be won. Our Department of Hospitals, as you know, has played an important part in the development and use of a new drug with which to fight tuberculosis. That helps to bring nearer the day of complete victory over the white plague. When our doctors and scientists eradicate the epidemic diseases, new problems arise. Those problems mainly concern the diseases and afflictions of middle age and later life, such diseases as cancer, heart disease, and diabetes. Here in this new health center, in addition to all the regular services of the department, there will be a center detection, a cancer detection prevention center. The cancer detection prevention center here will be one of a chain of such centers throughout the city where all knowledge and skills we have for fighting this disease will be put at the service of the people. This is a magnificent structure designed to be used to meet the new needs of this community of East Harlem. But to me, the heart of the service here lies in the people who work in this building, the doctors and nurses, the sanitarians and laboratory technicians, and all the others with special skills and high devotion to their tasks. For we must always remember that wicked and evil men, as well as good and devoted men, can build great buildings. It is not the building that matters alone, but the use to which it is put. This building is but a place in which people can work at the high task of saving and guarding life, at the great work of building health. In formally opening this new and remodeled East Harlem District Health Center, we dedicate an institution of service, an institution which will serve our people and our way of life. The part of any one of us that we may play might be very small, but the total purpose and the total effect is great. It is your building to be used by you and your servants of the health department to serve great purposes. members of the state of New York and the members of the state of New York and the members of the state of the state of New York. And in conclusion, I want to take this opportunity of extending the appreciation of Mayor Impeletary and the eight million people of the city of New York and the congratulations and felicitations to Commissioner Mahoney, to Commissioner Zermuelen, and to all who have participated in the bringing about of this wonderful contribution to the improvement of the health conditions of East Harlem. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Deputy Mayor. The next speaker will address in Spanish, Reverend Father James McSherry of St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church. Father McSherry. The President of the Manhattan Office, the distinguished guests and friends of Harlem, the President of the University of St. Paul, I don't think it's necessary to say that we are interested in you. I'm saying that we are interested in you. I'm saying that we are the ones, the religious, the people, the monks. The monks, the monks, enter in one of our schools, be it the school of St. Paul or St. Rosario or our the lady of Monte Carmel or St. Cecilia or all the saints, and see the monks teaching and trying to make their children good and good children. They are very interested in us. And we also. We are interested in your soul. Your soul is worth a lot in the eyes of God. We want you to appreciate your soul. I hope that it is so. But at the same time that we are interested in your soul, we are interested in your body. That your body is strong, vigorous and healthy. And why do we not interest you in your body? Our Lord was interested in your body. Our Lord was interested in your body. Read the Gospel. And see how he traveled through the streets of Galilee, giving the sight of the blind, hearing the sordid, speaking the mud, sanated the lepros. He was interested in our health care. And that's why we are very happy in this occasion when we open this office of health. It is a blessing to this town. This town. Here, the mother with her child will come. And the doctor and the nurse will examine the body, inoculating against the microbial and administering the medicine, in a word, to protect the health of this town. And that's why we are very happy. And we want to thank you all who have made this possible day. We want to thank you all the President of Manhattan Office, the Mayor of New York, the Health Commissioner, to the President of the Health Services, to the architect, to the contractor and to the workers. to the people who have made this day possible. We want to thank you all and hope that God bless you. And we hope that God bless you. bless you. We hope that God bless you. We hope that this office, keeping your body, raise your thoughts to the soul and God. Let God bless you. Thank you. Mr. Horowitz and Mr. Mahoney, Mr. Wagner, and all those who are responsible, all those who have made this day possible, we, the people of this section of Parliament, wish to express our thanks to you. And in return, we hope it will bring many blessings upon this neighborhood and that it will be the means of making better and better citizens of this people of Parliament. May God bless you. Thank you, Father McSherry. I should like now to bring Deputy Mayor Horowitz back to the microphone for just a moment. Commissioner Mahoney, it is my great privilege and pleasure to now present to you the key which will open the doors to this great health center, which I know will bring a great deal of alleviation of the troubles and pains of suffering of the people of East Harlem and bring to them education in the field of good health. Thank you very much, sir. I shall take a good deal of pleasure in turning this key to Dr. Ayers, who is and will continue, we hope, for a long time to serve as the district health officer for East Harlem. Thank you. Thank you. And that, gentlemen, concludes the ceremony. You are all now welcome to inspect the building, if you care. Thank you for sanitation van. And I'd like to thank very much the sanitation van for their courtesy. Of what pode pod erasmesearchaus