We are happy to have in our studio tonight the Federal Security Administrator, Mr. Oscar R. Ewing. Mr. Ewing will speak on the nationwide Conference on Aging, which is to meet in Washington on August 13th through 15th. This conference, called by Mr. Ewing at the request of President Truman, will attempt to explore some of the many and complex questions which have arisen from the increasing proportion of older men and women to our total population. And we're sure you'll be greatly interested in what he has to say. Mr. Ewing. I don't think I have to emphasize that this problem of aging is one that concerns all of us pretty directly. Nobody, of course, likes to grow old. But sooner or later, we have to face the fact that old age is creeping up on us. The point is, what sort of years will they be? How long, for instance, will you be able to hold down a job? Where and how will you and your wife live after you've retired? What about your health? How physically and mentally fit can you hope to stay during your later years? These are just a few of the questions that are becoming more and more imperative today for more and more people. Here is the crux of the problem. Fifty years ago, only one out of 25 persons in the United States was 65 years of age or over. Today, the ratio is one out of 13. By 1975, it may well be something like one out of nine. This tremendous increase in the proportion of old people to our total population has become a matter of national concern. In a dozen different ways, it affects the social and economic structure of our entire country. This conference on aging, which the president has asked me to call, is an attempt to explore all angles of the problem and to see whether we can come up with some workable answers. This will be the first nationwide conference on this subject ever convened. We have invited some 800 well-known leaders in business, medicine, labor, education, religion, social welfare, and other fields who have had first-hand experience in the problem. One of the chief causes of this heavy increase in the proportion of our old people is, of course, the sharp decline in our death rate over the past half century. Medical science, better public health services have conquered many of the diseases that were the chief killers of two or three generations ago. As a result, fewer people die in childhood or in their early and middle years, and more people live on into their 60s, their 70s, and even their 80s. All in all, we have increased our life expectancy at birth by some 20 years. Meanwhile, there have been other tremendous changes. Fifty years ago, we were predominantly an agricultural nation. Most of our people lived on farms or in small towns. Today, we are predominantly an industrial nation. Most of our people live in towns and large cities, and they either work in factories or are engaged in some trade or profession. All this has made a profound difference in our way of life. Formerly, the old folks mostly lived on farms where they had a safe home and useful work to do so long as they were physically capable. But the wage earner in a city like New York is in no such happy position. As he approaches old age, he becomes increasingly concerned over how long he will be able to hold on to a job. Furthermore, he may work for a firm which has a policy of retiring all workers when they reach a certain age, say 65. Even if he is entirely capable of continuing with his job, he is willy-nilly thrown out on the industrial scrap heap. One of the first things this conference is concerned with is whether our economy can keep the older worker employed as long as he is able to work and wishes to work. We want to explore the whole question of retirement age. In fact, we are even wondering whether it is a good thing to have any fixed retirement age at all or whether it is possible to work out a system where they would retire when their health and ability called for stopping work. We also want to see whether practical methods can be devised to give the elderly worker specialized job training so that he will still be able to earn a living and a job better suited to his physical capacities. But beyond this, we want to dig into the whole complex question of Social Security. How adequate is our present system of old age and survivors' insurance and public assistance? What are the pros and cons of industrial pension plans? How much of a security and pension load can our economy really carry? From another angle, we want to explore the whole problem of health as it relates to the aging. To what extent can preventive medicine lighten the burden of chronic disease which falls so heavily on our old people? What, in fact, can be accomplished through medical research to slow up the whole biological process of aging so that we can all stay younger for a longer period of time? Then we want to consider the problem of living arrangements for these older people. What provision can be made for living quarters that are geared to the specific needs of elderly people? And especially do we want to explore ways and means by which these older people can develop new social contacts and interests, recreation, opportunities to do creative work or to indulge in special hobbies, participation in community activities, activities, the role of our churches in enriching their deep-rooted spiritual resources? All of this, of course, is a very sketchy effort to present the problem as we see it. Before I close, I want to make one very important point. Right now, the nation is facing a crisis in its international relations. There is every indication that an increasing amount of our industrial production must be shifted to war production. When this happens, the question of manpower will become vital. Just as during the last war, we shall, for the next several years perhaps, have to rely heavily on the older and retired worker to carry much of the responsibility. Certainly, this time of crisis underscores the importance of the old people to our national economy. Even under the happiest peacetime conditions, we shall try to make full use of our productive resources and make it possible for every worker, young and old, to contribute to the nation's wealth. But when we are again facing an acute international situation, it is imperative that we do everything in our power to conserve and develop this important segment of our manpower resources. Not, of course, that this is the sole reason for the conference. First of all, our old people are people. And whatever we can do to help them live happier, healthier, and more useful lives will enrich and strengthen the whole nation. Thank you, Mr. Ewing. You've been listening to a talk on the National Conference on Problems of the Aged, presented by Federal Security Administrator Oscar Ewing. This has been a special feature in the public service of your city station. We suggest you stay tuned now for a short news summary, followed at 6 by the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion of what are your real interests. This is the municipal broadcasting system. I'm speaking to you from the office of Arthur Wallander here in City Hall. As you know, Commissioner Wallander is the former commissioner of the Department of Police in New York City, and now the head of civil defense. We want to take just a moment or two of his very valuable time to learn something about this new office. Now, Commissioner Wallander, just exactly what has been done so far in civil defense here in New York City. Well, John, three weeks ago, when the fighting broke out in Korea, Mayor Odeweyer called me to City Hall and asked me to take over the job of establishing a civil defense organization in New York City. As you know, during the past war, we have a civil defense organization. I'm speaking to you from the office of Arthur Wallander here in City Hall. As you know, Commissioner Wallander is the former commissioner of the Department of Police in New York City, and now the head of civil defense. We want to take just a moment or two of his very valuable time to learn something about this new office. Now, Commissioner Wallander, just exactly what has been done so far in civil defense here in New York City. Well, John, three weeks ago, when the fighting broke out in Korea, Mayor Odeweyer called me to City Hall and asked me to take over the job of establishing a civil defense organization in New York City. As you know, during the past war, we had a civil defense organization here in the city. With the cessation of hostilities, it was discontinued. Therefore, we were faced with the job of reestablishing an organization to protect the welfare of our 8 million people in an emergency. Three weeks is not a great deal of time in which to establish an organization of this kind. However, I'm satisfied with the progress we've made up to the present time. I immediately called the general conference of the heads of all departments and agencies of local government concerned with the civil defense phases of the city's life. And at that time, Mayor Odeweyer outlined briefly the work that was ahead of us. Virtually every city department is involved, and the key personnel of each department provides the framework. That is, it provides the framework around which we will build our emergency force. These departments, as you probably know, include the fire, police, welfare, markets, public works, hospitals, health, marine, aviation, and then we also have the water supply, gas, electricity, housing and buildings, the border transportation, and also the offices of the five borough presidents play a part. The department heads were instructed at that time to prepare plans to cover their specific responsibilities in any emergency and to submit requisitions for the emergency equipment they will require. In addition to this, the borough presidents have already requested their A's to make an inventory of all heavy equipment, publicly and privately owned. They need this so that they'll know what we have, where it is, and how to avail ourselves of it in time of necessity. A table of organization is now being prepared to cover every phase of operation required to meet any emergency, and the responsibilities of each unit of this organization will be clearly defined. Under this chart, there will be a chief of operations, chief of administration. These are the usual heads, and there will also be executives charged with training and planning, and the public will be kept informed step by step of every move we make under our policy of providing public information and enlightenment at all times. We feel that we owe this to the public, and this they've got to get. Plans are being formed for evacuation. It's still in the very formative stage where we haven't advanced very far, but if evacuation should ever be necessary, we want to be sure that we have the right answers. We are also invoking the active assistance of the public health and medical authorities for the protection of the health of our citizens. In addition, we shall have, as usual, the active assistance of such private agencies as the Red Cross, the Salvation Army, the American Women's Voluntary Services, the Auxiliary Medical and Nursing Corps, and, of course, the veteran and other patriotic community organizations will positively be fitted into our picture. We have the wholehearted encouragement and support of the mayor and the members of the Board of Estimate, and I'm sure that they want nothing left undone in this job of protecting the people of our city. Well, Commissioner, how does the present civil defense setup differ from the old one? You were director of civil defense in the last war, too. John, I was what they call a chief of staff at that time, and I was working under the former mayor, Mayor LaGuardia. At that time, the organizational problems, they did not differ a great deal from the present ones. However, in past emergencies, we did not have to anticipate the possible atomic warfare. This today has to be met very squarely. Fundamentally, our civil defense operation is much the same as the one we directed during World War II. One of the primary purposes is to prevent enemy attack, if that is at all possible, for the use of airplane spotters and other voluntary personnel and agencies. This we are accomplishing now and have set up quite a group of people who will be at strategic points throughout our city and spot airplanes as they come over. We must, if that is not successful, be prepared to rescue the trapped people, treat the injured in clear areas that will have been damaged or demolished. At the same time, do our utmost to maintain, well, those basic services which are so essential to the daily life of our people. I refer to, well, such agencies as the Water Department that have to do with water and as electricity and gas and transportation and sewers. We must at all times be prepared to enforce the law and order. We must, through our public health personnel, doctors, nurses, and scientists, preserve and protect the health of the community. We must, in cooperation with the state and possibly other nearby states find temporary housing facilities for our evacuees at such a time. All of the foregoing may sound rather grim. Let us hope it will never come to pass. But we cannot sit by and do nothing. We must make preparations for the protection and preservation of life and property in this city. And therefore, we must go ahead with this extraordinary job of mobilizing the emergency facilities and powers of our community. Each citizen will get an opportunity to serve in a capacity for which he is best fitted, I should say. We ask all to be calm and not get confused by any thinking that might be going around and await instructions. Your civil defense organization is moving ahead as rapidly as possible. And we are fully conscious of its great responsibility and fully aware of the desire of our public to be kept informed of our program. General Clay is the head of the state civil defense organization. Now, you're the head of the city. How do you work together in that connection? Well, General Clay's job is to direct all the forces within the state. We are a subdivision of the state and we are pleased to have him at the head of this great state organization. In my conference with General Clay, we discussed organization charts and found that the one which had been prepared by the state did not differ much from the one which we had prepared for the city. The only deviations were due to the peculiar local problems which are ours, problems we in the city understand and are prepared to meet. These are due mainly to our heavy concentration of population and our geographical structure. General Clay agreed that that was so and he agreed that we should set up a plan that was somewhat in variance with the state. It was impossible in such short time to explain in detail what has been done, what is being done and what will be done, but I hope I have succeeded in giving a broad picture of our civil defense organization and its plans. We've been talking with Arthur Wallander, former commissioner of the police department of New York City and now director of civil defense for New York City. Thanks very much for these moments you've been able to give us this morning, commissioner.
