I want to mention something. Mayor and Proletary, Mayor President Hall, Commissioner Moses, Commissioner Kavanaugh, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of the Department of Marine and Aviation, I have the honor this morning of welcoming you here at this historic occasion. We have a small program and it necessarily had to be brief because, as we all know, Mayor and Proletary is a very busy man. Therefore, without further ado, I would like to start the ceremonies with the playing of the Star Spangled Banner by the Fire Department Band of the City of New York under the direction of Honorary Deputy Chief George F. Regal. The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner THE END THE END Rabbi Alexander Bernstein, chaplain of the Department of Marine and Aviation, will now deliver the invocation. Rabbi Bernstein. Let us bow our heads in prayer. Almighty Father, with feelings of reverence and profound gratitude, we assemble here to dedicate this terminal that may become a place of comfort and rest, a meeting place for those who work and toil in our great city, and carry on the commerce and industries of our beloved land, our land and sea. We know that unless thou build the house, in vain we labor without thee. And unless thou enter with us to sanctify it by thy presence, no blessing can await us here, nor can we find that strong sense of a common destiny and a common unity, which should bind our hearts together in peace and brotherhood. O thou who set us the solitary in families and gather the nations together, we thank you for this land of our heart's devotion. We bless thee for the boundless treasures and the many gifts of nature hidden within our borders and entrusted to our people for use. For thy providence which has ever delivered our nation from danger and peril. For our memories of pioneers and fearless leaders who transformed the wilderness into a nation and won for us our free institutions. For the responsibilities and opportunities of our own new day and new age. And for the privileges that are ours to serve the cause of human freedom everywhere. Guard us from all selfish purposes in this critical hour in the life of our nation. Deliver us from every influence that would break down reverence for law and corrupt our sense of corporate responsibility. Make strong our hearts and patient our spirit. May thy power be our courage and may the light of thy countenance give unto us strength in our inner spirits. That thou may not falter in the times which test us to the uttermost. Uphold thy servant the President of these United States. The Governor of this State. The Mayor of this great City. The Commissioners, Executives. And all others whom the people have entrusted with power. That instructed by thy spirit they may govern this nation according to the law of that kingdom which has no end. In this spirit we consecrate this terminal unto thee, O God. And we enter it in peace and confidence under thy protection. Depart not hence. But dwell thou with us forever. Bestow thy blessing, O God, upon us here. Guide, O Father, who art in heaven. Our steps. And God, thou art going out. And art coming in. From this time forth. And forevermore. Amen. Amen. It now affords me great pleasure to introduce Commissioner Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr. of the Department of Marine and Aviation, who will act as your master of ceremonies. Commissioner Kavanaugh. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mayor Pelletieri, Commissioner Moses, Board President Hall, Mr. Hedquist, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. The chairman has sounded the keynote of brevity. I know the pressure under which the mayor labors. This is rather a long program and I shall abide by the keynote sounded by the chairman. The consistency and proximate regularity with which I have had the honor and pleasure of appearing in my official capacity at million and multi-million dollar improvement ceremonies in this borough speaks well, I believe, for the high regard and deep consideration in which your borough and municipal administration, holds the welfare of the people of Staten Island, holds the welfare of the people of Staten Island. This ceremony this morning is of particular and momentous significance in that it marks the completion and the opening of an integral link in a city and statewide traffic system. And has cost to date upwards of $24 million. It does not represent just a ferry house or a ferry terminal. In a broad sense, it represents a link in the great arteries of traffic on which the life and progress and success of this city depend. Here on this island, you have more than 10% of the total rent roll value of the piers of the city of New York. Without adequate transportation to and from the other areas of the city, those piers would stagnate and commerce would be diverted to other areas of the nation. And the world. Having in mind that great commerce, your mayor and your administration are engaged on a tremendous port development program of which we feel this terminal, with its approaches, its dispatching points, its arteries of passenger travel is a major part. To date, we have spent, in addition to the $25 million or so that has gone into this particular part of the project, more than $23 million on work accomplished or being accomplished as of this moment. That work includes new construction, fire prevention, rehabilitation and modernization of your whole port. And we intend militantly and energetically to keep this port in the forefront as the greatest and most important port in all the world. Now, just in conclusion, I will say that you have our complete assurance that this terminal and this link here will be maintained in the interest not only of you people, but in the greater interest of all the people of the city. You have our assurance of the continued care and interest we will take around the clock in your ferry service and your interests here on Staten Island. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Before presenting the next speaker, I would like to take a moment to introduce two gentlemen who have given such service and such assistance that I would be remiss if I did not ask them at this point to speak. I would like to take a moment to stand and take a bow. First, I would call on Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Marine and Aviation, Marvin Lekman, Commissioner Lekman. And then also our new experienced and energetic and conscientious Deputy Commissioner of Marine and Aviation, Alexander Peet Chopin. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure for me to present someone known to all of you who I believe is tireless in his conscientious efforts to safeguard the interests of the great borough of Richmond. And in addition, I would like to express at the same time I introduce him my appreciation to him and the organization he represents for the counsel they continually give to us. Mr. Otto Hedquist, Executive Secretary of the Staten Island Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Hedquist. Reverend Clergy, Mr. Kavanaugh, Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Moses, and President Hall. Ladies and gentlemen, this occasion initiates a magnificent forward step in the advancement of Staten Island. It indicates that after a lengthy struggle, Staten Island is finally coming into its own as one of the outstanding boroughs of the City of New York. Every citizen of Staten Island is very proud of this magnificent ferry terminal. And to you, Mr. Mayor, all the officials of the City of New York, as well as the laborers, draftsmen, engineers, contractors, and all others who have had anything to do whatsoever with the building of this ferry terminal, the citizens of Staten Island will be ever grateful. We sincerely pray and hope that this ferry terminal is but the first milestone in the advancement of Staten Island. As magnificent as it is, without proper ferry service, both for our passengers and for our vehicles, its cost could well be for naught. Commissioner Kavanaugh, to you, your official staff of the Department of Marine and Aviation, the pilots and crews of the ferries, we owe a debt of gratitude. But also, we look to you for increased ferry service that will be commensurate with our growth and our ever-increasing busy tempo which exists in the metropolitan New York. Our borough president, Mr. Hall, is our leader and we appreciate his untiring efforts in pursuit of the citizens of Staten Island and the improvements of the place he proudly calls his home. We pray and we hope that this is the beginning of a new era in the state of Staten Island and the development of Staten Island and the development of Staten Island. That the many things which we need to make it a thriving, growing island will be supported by the officialdom of the City of New York. And that our needs for better roads, express highways, waterfront improvements, sanitation and the adjuncts, thereto necessary to lessen the pollution of the water surrounding Staten Island will be shortly forthcoming. We are indebted to Commissioner Moses for his foresight in the developing of our park system and sincerely trust that he will not lessen his efforts to further the development of marine park in order that it soon will be heralded throughout the entire country as a haven for recreation, not only for the general populace, but also as a yacht basin for small craft. We on Staten Island are well aware of the fact that our growth and development are entirely dependent upon the officials of the city of New York and that as we here dedicate this magnificent very terminal, we look to our officials for our great needs, which shall establish for a fact that Staten Island is no longer a stepchild of the city of New York as its least populated borough with large open areas for expansion. It can very shortly be converted into a large tax revenue producing area for the city of New York, but only as the officials of the city of New York give to it the necessary improvements that will give its ever-growing population the same facilities of ingress and egress egress as is now enjoyed by the other four boroughs of the city of New York. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Moses, Commissioner Cavanaugh, and all the officialdom of the city of New York, we beseech you and your aides to accept this challenge, which is jointly yours and ours. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... to emphasize the important part the next speaker has played not only in the conception of the idea for this terminal, but the conception of the ideas for much of the development on this island. With honor, I present the construction coordinator of the City of New York and the commissioner of parks of the City of New York, the man who has built up so much of the city and state of New York, the Honorable Robert Moses. Thank you. Commissioner Cavanaugh, Mayor Impilateri, and ladies and gentlemen, I've said this often before, this is a great borough. It's the only borough in the City of New York where there's still an opportunity for a first-class planning job. One of the reasons for it, of course, is your comparative isolation. Now, this terminal is not only a very ingenious piece of engineering and construction work, but it's one of the most important solutions of the traffic problem in the City of New York. I must say I'm getting a little bit tired of the press and other people who boast that they rarely ever go to Brooklyn, that they only go to Queens for funerals, and that they've never been to Staten Island. I don't think that's any patent of nobility. The fact is that there's much more to New York City than midtown Manhattan, and this is a very important part of it. Now, as the statistics show in this program you have in front of you, this terminal here will have half as many passengers as Grand Central, and Grand Central is one of the most important and used terminals in the world. Very few people understand that. Of course, it's because everybody goes through this funnel on the way to work and home in the evenings. Just two things I want to mention in this particular context. First of all, I guess you all know that we were very anxious to build a Narrows Bridge. Tunnel was impossible for cost and other reasons. We've had to give that up, and I would be less than frank if I said that it hadn't been given up for a long, long time. The clearance of this bridge had to be so great, over 250 feet, that it would have been the highest, longest, and by far the most expensive bridge in the world, and there was no way of finding the funds to build it. The Triborough Bridge Authority has been anxious to help Mayor Impilateri and also Borough President Hall, and we've agreed to spend some of our surplus money to revive the 39th Street Ferry, rebuild the slips in Brooklyn, to widen 39th Street and build the ramps on the Gowanus improvement and put in additional slips here and better approaches. We'll start designing that with a Borough President and with Commissioner Kavanaugh just as soon as we can. I don't say that that's a complete substitute for a Narrows Bridge, but it's a very important addition to your facilities here at this terminal, and you can be sure that we'll build just as fast as priorities and labor and material conditions will permit. The other thing I want to mention is this long-delayed Staten Island Railroad Elimination Program. Again, I would be less than frank if I didn't say that I think it's nothing short of a disgrace that this argument over the elimination has been going on within my knowledge and memory since the last administration of Governor Smith. And finally, it's got down to a question of just exactly how certain details of construction will be carried on, and an argument largely involving railroad engineers and engineers in Albany centering around the question of whether certain changes in design will be made, which if they were made would result in a delay of another two years. I think we can overcome that. But that record of the Staten Island Elimination takes up about three feet. If you pile the whole thing up, all the correspondence, it would be about three feet high, and it's been going on for 20 years, and it's time it ended, and I think we can end it. I want to thank the Commissioner for inviting me, and I'm delighted to be here on this very auspicious occasion. Thank you. Commissioner Moses extended his thanks to the Commissioner, and if I may have the privilege of extending it further, the thanks should also have gone to the next Speaker. This terminal is not alone the project of the Department of Marine and Aviation. It is also the project of your borough. And the next Speaker has had also from its conception a very important part in it, and this part has been marked with diligent effort, tireless effort day after day, personal observation of its progress and pride in its completion. I present the borough president of Richmond, the Honorable Cornelius A. Hawke. Mr. Mayor, Commissioner Moses, Commissioner Kavanaugh, distinguished visitors, ladies and gentlemen, I like this terminal. I have not a single criticism to make against either its design or its construction. The commuters like the terminal, and I feel that everyone who has passed through it admires it. On several occasions in the past, I have thanked the members of the Board of Estimates for appropriating the money that made this terminal possible. I wish at this time to thank the former mayor of this city, Mayor O'Dwyer, for what he did here. I wish to thank the mayor. I wish to thank the mayor for the many kindnesses that he showed to me as borough president of Richmond. I wish to thank him for the interest that he took in all problems affecting our borough. And you, Mr. Mayor, were a member of the Board of Estimates from January 1, 1946, and one of the team, all during the construction. And therefore, I want to especially thank you for your help. Time after time, we had our items for the improvement of this terminal amounting to many millions of dollars. And you always went along with those requests with a smile. Occasions like this offer one the opportunity to point out the additional needs of a community. But I shall restrain myself, as I want this celebration to be distinguished by the absence of anything but words of praise. I wish the people of this city could realize or could understand more fully the great and serious problems that affect the city of New York and the burden that is placed on the mayor of the city. He is the chief executive and must face many problems. The transit problem is only one of the many. But I want you to feel, Mr. Mayor, that this is your day on Staten Island. We don't want you to be burdened with any additional problems today. We want your visit here to be as restful and pleasant as possible. And we want you to leave here with the knowledge that we appreciate this fine terminal. We offer words of praise and thanks. In addition to every city agency, every department head, Commissioner Moses, to the engineers Madigan and Highland, to every contractor and to every workman, and especially to you, Mr. Mayor. Before hearing once more from the fire department band under the direction of Chief Briegel, I would like to take just one more moment to introduce here three from among the many to whom we are indebted for assistance in operating this terminal and our ferry service. They are all prominent Staten Island residents, and they're here on the stand. First is the Commandant of the 3rd Coast Guard District, Admiral Olsen. Then we have the Commissioner of Public Works of the City of New York, whose achievements in building are known to us, Commissioner Frederick Zemula. And last but not least, your Councilman, Councilman Schick of the Borough of Richmond. The next speaker needs no introduction at all to any of you. Frequently, men in public life acquire or develop an interest in various areas subsequent to political success. But I think in the case of the next speaker, his interest in this island dates from back 19... Well, I won't date it, but dates so far back that it would just be senseless to charge him with what I have mentioned concerning others. He's been president of the City Council, working on all matters connected with the construction of this terminal since that date. His interest in the replacement of the terminal after the fire was called to the attention of all at a very early date. As mayor, I think his visits to Staten Island and the frequency with which he confers with his commissioners on matters affecting Staten Island bespeak just some degree of affection for this borough more than other places. It is my real honor to present the mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. and fellow two. Commissioner Cavanaugh, Reverend Clergy, Burr President Hall, Commissioner of Public Works, Fred Zermullen, Admiral Olson, Mr. Headquist, ladies and gentlemen, the natural beauty and the pleasant living conditions in Staten Island have long been acclaimed. It is also a borough of tremendous potential developers whose growth is largely dependent upon adequate transportation facilities to other sections of our city. Today, we celebrate one of the most important contributions ever made in the history of the borough of Richmond toward this kind of development. Another such contribution was recently made when we placed in operation the third of our new fleet of streamlined ferries. Together, these transportation improvements represent an expenditure of almost $30 million. down through the years, editorials at times have pointed out or tried to point out that Staten Island was a stepchild of the city administration. Surely, ladies and gentlemen, this is an answer to that kind of editorial. Only a short-sighted observer, however, would consider this magnificent terminal solely as a borough of Richmond improvement. For the economic gains and improvement of the general public welfare in any one borough cannot help but bring direct benefits to all the people of our city. The advantages of this modern terminal will soon spread to all sections of the city because much more than better terminal facilities are contained in this building. It is also a major traffic relief measure. It will serve as a stimulant for the economic development of the borough which in turn will bring additional city revenue. direct revenue will also be produced by the increased business of capacity of this terminal's facilities and from the concessions that are being allocated for certain public improvements and inconvenience. The problem of Staten Island ferry transportation has been the subject of lively controversy as far back as the 17th century. history records that in 1624 Peter Stuyvesant faced what was aptly called home bickerings caused by serious inconveniences to the people residing on either side of the water. And that goes all the way back to 1624. Ferries at that time consisted mainly of rowboats or Indian canoes sometimes last together to transport horses and cattle as well as people. A few sloops made the passage from Staten Island to New York in what was considered then very fast time three hours. I mention this because I would like to significantly point out a comparison between our ferry rates now and what they were then about 300 years ago. Wagons and horses were charged two guilders and two stivers. That was under the Dutch administration or approximately one dollar. A horse or horned beast one guilder and ten stivers or 60 cents. Each person was charged three stivers or six cents except for Indians male or female who were charged six stivers or 12 cents. I don't know why there was that discrimination way back in those days. In short the five cent fare today is less than the rates in effect 300 years ago and I am sure that you will agree that the service is somewhat better. For those who would like a more modern comparison contained in the span of one generation the best way to measure the tremendous improvements made this year to Staten Island ferry facilities is to consider the increased traffic load since 1905 when municipal ferry operation first began. From 41,000 vehicles going through the terminals in 1905 our traffic volume has soared to more than two million vehicles accommodated last year. With the increased capacity of this new terminal next year's total may well reach a quarter of a billion vehicles. Similarly passenger traffic has increased to almost 30 million ferry passengers carried per year. The magnitude of this operation is better understood as Commissioner Moses pointed out when one considers that this is about half of the total passenger traffic handled at Grand Central Terminal. despite increased operation costs which are far in excess of the proportionate return from increased fare revenues the fare is still what it was in 1905 five cents and one cent less than it was 300 years ago. Today we add to this service a unique transportation facility. Unlike any other terminal five separate types of transportation have been integrated into its design. Vehicular bus rail and pedestrian traffic must be transferred on and off ferry boats. The complicated interchange had to be continued uninterrupted during the entire construction period in relatively a small area and are under most difficult working conditions. Commissioner Cavanaugh and the entire division of ferry operations in the Department of Marine and Aviation ought to be congratulated for having accomplished this major achievement with minimum inconveniences to the public. I am proud to have had a share in the conception and in expediting this great public improvement. To all of the members of the Board of Espinay, the governing body of the City of New York, and particularly to your distinguished borough president, Cornelius Hall, goes the credit of having made this improvement possible. Thank you. It is interesting to note that on the very day that the Board of Estimate was considering plans for construction of this new terminal, the old ferry terminal burned down. Undoubtedly, the fire did hasten our plans, but lest there be any misunderstanding. I assure you that our enthusiasm for this project did not involve the crime of awesome. The many advantages of this modern structure are too numerous to describe in the limited time of this joyful occasion. I would like to call to your attention, however, some of the innovations and public services that are contained in it. At full capacity, this terminal is equipped to handle an estimated peak load of 30 ferry boats per hour, accommodate 550 commuter buses per hour, dispatch 30 railroad trains per hour, provide transportation for 45,000 passengers per hour, provide waiting lines for 260 passenger cars for the Brooklyn and New York ferries, provide a separate area for 80 automobiles waiting to pick up passengers, and provide additional parking facilities for 500 cars. The fireproof terminal building itself, with large public waiting rooms supplied with radiant heating, has a floor area of 168,000 square feet. about 17,000 square feet of this area has been allocated for concessions, which will include such public conveniences as a post office, telegraph office, travel aid, and such shops as a bakery, haberdashery, dyers and cleaners, barbershop, florist, newsstands, cigar stands, chute, repairs, and blue-black services. Everything about this building has been designed for the comfort and safety of the riding public. I would be remiss in my duty today, however, if I did not acknowledge that much more than concrete and steel went into the making of this great terminal. This project might better be measured in the heartaches of planning, the kind of planning that was supplied not only to this project but many other similar projects for the benefit of all the people of the city of New York by our perfectly wonderful city construction coordinator, Bob Moses. The many headaches of construction problems, the skill of the engineers, and the sweat and toil of our great American laboring people. On behalf of the people of the city of New York, I want to thank everyone connected with this project. All of them may fully share in the gratitude and applauded of all the people of our city for a splendid job well done. Thank you. The Reverend Dr. Charles T. Bridgman, Trinity Church in the city of New York, chaplain of the Department of Marine and Aviation, will pronounce the benediction. The Lord be with you. Let us pray. Almighty God, whose hand is over all thy people traveling by land or by sea, extend we beseech thee thy merciful protection to all who labor here and who pass through this ferry terminal on their lawful occasions. Defend them from all dangers and set them on their way with a grateful sense of thy mercies through Jesus Christ our Lord. And the blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost be with you, and upon your going out and your coming in from this time forth forevermore. Amen. We will now have two selections from the fire department band under the direction of Chief Brigham. Pokémon Pokémon Pokémon Pokémon Pokémon Pokémon Pokémon The End The End The End The End The End The End
