Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pleasure to welcome you here for the third symposium presented under the sponsorship of the Junior Council of the Museum. The first symposium was on painting devoted to the work of Paul Plague. The second was on industrial design concerning the aesthetics of automobile design. I hope some of you were there to witness that notable riot. The third is on films and is entitled, with a question mark, Does the Public Get What It Wants? These three symposia happen to be in the same sequence as the formation of the departments of the museum which they involve. The painting began when the museum opened in 1929. Architecture and industrial design in 1932, 1933, 1934. The film library was founded in 1935 under the direction of John Abbott with Miss Barry, Miss Iris Barry, as curator. She is now the director. The film library is sometimes considered, particularly we feel, or at least fear, in Hollywood as being somewhat long hair, being concerned with esoteric shorts, surrealist, abstract films, odds and ends of early movies, arty documentaries, ancient fragments of one sort or another. Actually, the film library is primarily concerned with the film library. Actually, the film library is really primarily concerned with the films as a popular art, one of Mr. Selda's seven lively arts, perhaps the greatest popular art of our time. As an art, it has a history, and that's been the second great concern of the film library. Films have a past as well as a present, although the past is not as heavily advertised as the present usually is. In the 1930s and 1940s and 1940s, a very recent acquisition of the film library was Night Must Fall, in which Robert Montgomery took so magnificent a role. And as soon as it's released from the commercial circuits, we hope, of course, to acquire that wonderful and very moving documentary, The Quiet One, produced by Janice Lowe. So, these are plugs which will be clear to you as the evening proceeds. The film library not only collects, preserves and shows films here in New York, but sends them throughout the country and throughout the world. In addition, since we in this country lack any official government agency for the distribution of American films, Miss Barry and the film library actively promote the reputation of American films abroad. For instance, with her encouragement, The Quiet One was shown in Edinburgh, where it won a prize and started on its career of great European recognition. As president of the International Federation of Film Archives, which now includes some thirteen countries, and which has had meetings in Rome, Copenhagen, Paris, Brussels since the war, Miss Barry carries the work of the film library and American film achievement throughout Europe. The moderator of this evening's symposium is Professor Charles Seathman. He was at one time director of the program planning of the BBC in England. After coming to this country for several years, he was consultant to President Conant at Harvard, served in the OWI during the war, and is now professor of education at New York University in the special and very important field of mass communications. Professor Seathman. I am going to rise for a few moments and then sit myself down again because we are having an informal discussion here tonight in which there will be no formality even to the extent of rising to one's feet. But I do rise as a matter of courtesy to perform my first and very pleasant duty of introducing the members of this panel, an introduction which in some instances at least is somewhat redundant. On my right, well, need I say, is there anything to say? Whether a phrase. Whether a phrase. Whether a phrase. Whether a phrase. The first lady of the screen. The first woman to have won the love of half the world. Her list of firsts go on and on. Anne, the creator of the star system, on which I hope she will speak later, the first star in a large constellation since collected, but a star created in her instance, and perhaps uniquely, in terms of spontaneous popular acclaim, unaided even at the start by any form of synthetic promotion. I give you with respect and with great admiration an old friend of every moviegoer and an adored member of the screen world, Miss Mary Pickford. And moving from redundance to redundance, further on my right, another figure familiar to you all, perhaps not as a person, but at least as a synthetic image of a person. Another one-time matinee idol, producer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. He's graduated long since to other avocations, distinguished producer, director, and behind that, Urbane and debonair countenance, masking surprisingly an extraordinary vitality and initiative which now takes him towards the conquest of new worlds, having conquered the screen. He is now busy conquering both radio and television in one stride. Again, with pride and admiration, I give you, whom you know, Mr. Robert Montgomery. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. On the extreme right, a sinister and important figure whom you'd get acquainted with if you don't know him yet, a powerful influence in the world of the movies, a distributor, an exhibitor of films who is honored, I think, among us, even though we don't know it, perhaps, most of all for what he has done with his partner, Mr. Burstyn, in bringing to us some of the finest foreign films that have been shown in this country in the post-war era, the films of Rossellini and his latest achievement, The Bicycle Thief, which makes him in his own right, I think, an expert in the problem of censorship. Of that, I hope Mr. Mayer, whom I now give you as the third member of our panel, Mr. Arthur Mayer, long versed in the screen world and all the activities of the distribution and exhibition of films. On that subject and many others, we will have much from him that will be of great interest to us all, Mr. Arthur Mayer. And on my left, distinguished not only for her flaming hair, but for her flaming spirit, as many of you know, which went with that alike spirit of a few colleagues to the making, on a shoestring and on love, of one of the loveliest movies, again, of the post-war era, if not the creator, one of the conspirators to give us that film that all of you here, I am certain, have already seen and will long want to go back and re-see The Quiet One. Miss Janice Lowell. And thus, but by no means least, I dare hardly dare say it, am I right, Gilbert? The film's oldest critic? I think not. I think not. I think not. I think not. But certainly one of the pioneers of intelligent film criticism, one who worked earlier and harder at making the films respectable in pseudo-intellectual circles. A man who gave us honest criticism and decent criticism and brought, I think in large measure, the film into the area of respectable acceptance among the so-called intellectuals of our kind. Author of The Seven Lively Arts. Now, this year, he told me, celebrating its 25th year of publication, which takes us a long way back in history, and he deserves his commercial plug. He has another book coming out to be published in the fall, which I give you a free commercial on. It has the title of the what? You can't be telling you. The Great Audience. To be published by Viking, to be purchased by every member here present, please. We should have had, and it's with very great regret that I have to announce that we have not, one other member of this panel, Mr. Rubin, who was invited to speak as, from the angle of the producer, as it were, from the higher echelon of filmmaking. But he sent his very great regret that he was unable to come with us tonight, owing to a previous engagement. Now, I think I sit down, and we get down to business. First, I want to tell you something of the rules of the game. Time runs against us. There are five of us here. There are five others here, whose voices you want to hear. That they may all be heard, we must proceed to wartime rationing. And this bell in here is the sinister symbol of my authority to bell out any of our distinguished speakers, should they exceed a time limit that I won't tell you about, but I will exert. That is to enable you to get the benefit of the fullest cross-discussion that we can get. Our procedure will be to, I want to introduce the topic for tonight in a few brief words, and then to throw questions around the panel for an initial round, and then proceed to a complete free-for-all, a fair exchange as between anybody who wants to contribute, and thereafter to a contribution from yourselves to the audience, which I hope will be, in some senses, the most significant and helpful part of the evening. You are cordially invited, at the proper hour, to enter into this symposium, and meantime to hold your peace. What we are invited to do here tonight is what we are all exercised in as children. There is a game that my children play of putting a tail on the lamb, or the lion, or whatever it may be. We have got to put a smile, or an extraordinarily glum look, on the face of the public, according, as we judge, the response to the question of the evening, which is, does the public get what it wants? We ought to have, of course, an animated picture back of us here, in which, according to the tenor of the discussion, the smile goes up or the face goes down, so that you could have portrayed for you the general tenor of that event. But our objective tonight is to try and see whether we can come to any conclusion about an obviously, desperately broad issue, whether the public gets what it wants in terms of films. Now, in order to do so, I think it is important to start with a few bromides that distinguish this business of filmmaking from any other form of art. And I use that word unashamedly. I do think the film is an art, but how the artist comes by his filmmaking is a quite peculiar problem. And I'd like briefly to outline to you what seems to me the essence of the problem, which has to be discussed and analyzed before we can conclude anything about whether the public gets what it wants. Now, if you want to make a movie, you're not like a man who wants to paint a picture or write a score. To write a score, all you need is a pencil and a piece of paper. To make a movie, you need a great deal more than that. And what that great deal more involves is money. You can't make movies without money. That's one basic obstacle that we have to reckon with. Now, in order to make your money, to recoup your outlay of money, if you make a film, you must find a public. And that public will be as large as you want, if your money-making interests are concerned. But if you're interested in making a film, that audience will be just as large as will be necessary to recover your cost. If your cost is 40,000, you want to get 40,000 back, and maybe a little more. If it's a million, it's a million that's got to come back. So that your problem is to create a film which invites a response from the public which is commensurate with your outlay of costs. Very crude terms. Now, if you're to reach an audience of whatever size, you can't go there yourself. But you have to involve yourself in a collaboration with people who will get that audience to you. And that involves the collaboration of a distributor and of an exhibitor. And that collaboration involves also two things. It involves a partnership in financial risk, and it involves you in the rather embarrassing fact that you become then the subject of appraisal by your distributor and your exhibitor in terms of the saleability of your film. There is interposed between you and your public a judgment, and a judgment legitimately placed in terms of the financial involvement of the person with whom you are to collaborate. And thus it is that you can't reach your public in films other than through intermediaries who may prove embarrassing in these various respects. Now, this, I think, in broad outline, is the conditioning process of filmmaking in the modern world. And the structure of the modern film derives basically from people's decisions as they relate to this complicated question. The five majors, as they are known in Hollywood, are structures, vast and enormously important, producing structures, which have come into being as the end of a very long battle for control. And it was long ago that the five majors saw that if they were to place the films that they made in sufficiency with the public to procure a return, they would do well to insure themselves in some respect. And what they did was to, as it were, buy in to the distributing and to the exhibiting business to an extent which was true some years ago that resulted in the income of the five majors being larger from their ownership of exhibiting houses than it was from the production of films. That was a form of insurance to secure that the films made were not precluded from circulation to the public by the intermediacy of any other person. There was that degree of insurance at least. What has come about has been that the movie, as we broadly speak of it, is something made for circulation in upwards of 18,000 theaters in this country, working its way through distributors and exhibitors in that fashion, creating a supply-demand relationship which calls for a matter of 400 films a year of full-length dimensions to feed the public hunger at the exhibiting end, on an average cost of somewhere around a million-plus for each full-length feature that's produced. Now, to operate on such a scale obviously involves all kinds of complicated questions. And we now come to the basis of some of the more trenchant criticisms that have been advanced against Hollywood, which is known or held to personify filmmaking in our day, in this country and the world across. Hollywood, in effect, is the five majors. And the five majors have achieved this powerful control, which is now being uncontrolled as a result of a process of law under suit by the Department of Justice. But they have established a dominant position in filmmaking which has been attacked by many critics as resulting in a great many things which these critics believe to be to the disadvantage of the public. It is said, for instance, that in order to circulate films on such a scale, scale being now standardized at 18,000 theaters, pictures have been reduced to formula-written documents conceived in terms of a stereotype that is hoped to have what is known as universal appeal. Now, the critic condemns such a process in that he does not admit that the public exists in terms of any universe of discourse of this kind. And that the effort to please everybody has resulted in a stereotype of a very dull and restricted form of film. I am not making these personal criticism. I am voicing popular criticism that are often expressed. It is said in the second place that as a result of this preoccupation with marketing, the business aspects of filmmaking and distribution, no film can be made or will pass muster that isn't attended by the presence of at least two glittering stars. And the star system itself has been vigorously attacked as distracting reasonable attention from the content of a film and the true portrayal of character to this projection of people's images of themselves into this idealized concept of the star whom they ape and hope that they might one day be and which exists as a form of dream world satisfaction for the frustrated lives of the millions. The star system is in that sense described as a demoralizing and unnecessary component of modern filmmaking, which has particularly put at considerable discount the makers of films who either cannot or do not wish to rely on film stars as the point of attraction. Another basic criticism that has been launched against Hollywood and we are dealing in very broad generalities is that the commercial aspect of the business has brought people in to dominant positions of decision who have no business in an art world. That businessmen, bankers and whatnot are the determining factors in the production of creative work. And that the risk capital involved has again resulted in extremely unhappy consequences in terms of the nature of the film. The fear of giving offence has created a form of self-censorship which is so fearful of offence that it has established a code of morals that is believed by the critics to be restrictive of common sense and the free play of artistic self-expression. There is strong criticism of censorship of films self-imposed within the industry and imposed without through film censor boards in various states where they exist. A further criticism is that as the result of this concentration of control and power in the hands of the five majors, the hopes, prospects and output of independent producers have been seriously circumscribed. That the independent producer, that individual initiative itself, is cramped and curtailed by virtue of the dominance of the five majors with their preoccupations along such lines as I've described. And finally, Hollywood itself, at least certain distinguished members of Hollywood, have directed their fire not at the five majors, but at another villain in the story, whom, who was described at another film forum, the Life Forum, that I attended about a year ago, by one of the most distinguished of Hollywood directors in these terms. And he spoke in straight language. Who, said Joseph Mankiewicz, known to you all, controls the movies? Isn't it true that a real estate operator whose chief concern should be taking gum off carpets and checking adolescent lovemaking in the balcony? Isn't it true that this man is in control? Isn't it true that when he gives you 40% of what he takes out of the picture you have made and keeps 60%, he thinks he is giving you a hell of a fine deal? Here is the incredible power of a real undercover man in the motion picture industry, and more to that effect. Another voice raised, and I should have quoted this earlier in the context of the independent producer, is that of late Governor Ellis Arnold, now President of the Independent Motion Picture Producers of America, who, speaking for the independent producer, uses these strong words. Monopoly controls and illegal trade practices in distribution and exhibition have created a vicious system which has made it virtually impossible for the independent producer to pay off costs. Well, I have assembled for you a catalogue of basic criticisms which these critics contend are the occasion, these faults are the occasion of the fact that in their judgment the public doesn't get what it wants at all. It has put itself into a straitjacket and has been, as it were, moulded and conditioned to a supply which has been stereotyped in its character and has the other attributes that I've described. And it's with reference to these fundamental criticisms that I want now to open up discussion on the panel. There will be scope for endless further discussion of other points, but let's throw some questions around now to see what reactions are. I'd like to throw the first question over to Gilbert Selvitz, because I don't think we can intelligently discuss this question of whether the public gets what it wants until we have some kind of conception of what the public is. Gilbert, will you tell us, as best you can, what your conception of the public is, as you see it in the context of such comments that I've made? Thank you, Charles. I will. I first want to congratulate you on your summary and to say that I feel very much put upon. Your introduction of me was so devious that I was robbed of the privilege of rising. You had worked me in. I'll rise now. I have the right to that. I can arrive, I really can arrive some way at the answer to the basic question, the audience getting the pictures that it wants. Arrive at it from the reverse. There is a sufficient amount of statistical proof that the audience is not wanting the pictures that it gets. Now, when I deal with statistics having to do with the motion picture business, I have an established rule never to quote anybody lower in rank than a vice president, and if possible, a vice president on the business side and not on the producing side. I have some figures from vice presidents exclusively. Vice President Paramount, two vice presidents of 20th century, et cetera, et cetera. And these figures all tend to one simple thing, that people do not like the pictures they're getting, and the proof of it is that people are not going to the movies in sufficient quantities. Two years ago, the motion picture, a year ago, the motion picture audience was 13% less than the previous year. Last year, the decline wasn't quite so great. The motion picture industry congratulated itself because it only lost 7% of the audience. 7 and 13 is 20. If they get any comfort out of losing 20% of the audience in two years, it must be rather cold comfort. Now, more than that, there are 15 million people in the United States who are getting the pictures they want. That is, of the total motion picture going audience, that's say, I don't know, 15% or so. There are 15 million people who steadily see the basic Hollywood product, the A picture. You will read that 86 million people pay, or 90 million or 60 million pay, their admission fees every week at the box office. But that does not mean separate individual pictures, people, and it doesn't mean the A pictures. This is a vice presidential figure. The maximum number of people who see the A picture of different people is 15 million. It varies between 13 and 15. Out of the 100 million people who are willing and able to go to the movies, you get down to this miserable figure of only 15 million people. As a result of that, only 16 out of about 150 pictures made last year, feature pictures, only 16 out of 150 paid for the cost of making and distribution in the domestic market. And they paid off by getting their money from outside. But in the domestic market, only one-tenth paid off. This isn't so surprising. Figures that Mr. Seatman alluded to didn't quite give you in detail about the amount of money that studios make out of theaters and not out of the pictures they put into them. Corresponds to the money they invested in the business. You think of the movies as a great big business in which a hundred or two hundred million dollars are invested in making pictures. That is totally false. Out of a hundred million dollars invested in the motion picture business, only five million is invested in making pictures. Ninety million is invested in real estate and the other parts of distribution and exhibition. So, the whole business of making movies is just a little tail that cannot wag the dog of a great big real estate operation. Gilbert, I have to bring you back from the real estate to the audience because your time is running out. Already? The audience dwindles and all of you here are already at the age when you stop going to the movies. Between the ages of 10 and 19 people go to the audience regularly. After that, they begin to stop. After 30, they hardly ever go. I am one of the people that constantly goes after the age of 30. Two thirds of the people in the United States contribute only one third of the audience. And I may have some reason to explain later why it is that older people, adult people, mature people do not go. But at this moment, I have only one more point to make. We cannot say, if we are movie makers, I am not, but if we are, we cannot say that the audience is getting what it wants because we cannot conceive of the audience as a group of people who have certain wants. The motion picture industry creates the wants which it satisfies. The motion picture industry makes you want certain things by offering them to you and attracting you. No one can tell what your wants are until you have a chance to see the pictures. The same thing is true of the radio programs. These great mass media are creating the audiences and then satisfying the wants which they themselves can create. And so long as that continues, we cannot call ourselves immune to criticism. We can't say we are giving the audience what they want because we, the producers, or I say they, the producers, are creating the wants in the audience and then satisfying them. Am I within my limits? Not really, but I will concede the point. Thank you very much. Mr. Montgomery, may I throw you the next question? Arising out of the comments that I made and reverting to the basic point of the stranglehold of the five majors over independent production on the one hand and the financial tail wagging the dog of direction and production and creative work, what would your judgment be as one who as actor, director, producer, and servant of one of the majors in your long experience would be the true interpretation of that criticism? In trying to arrive at some conclusions about the reasons for this lack of attendance in the motion picture theaters today, which Mr. Selvies has only too clearly pointed out to you, searching back into what experience I've had in California, I have, I think, come to some very definite conclusions regarding the divergence of point of view in relationship to the actual production of a motion picture. We have two groups roughly in California, in Hollywood, who are interested in the making of a motion picture. One is the group which is interested in the turning out of a piece of entertainment. This, for the sake of clarity, we might call the creative group. The writer, the director, the actor, the producer. The second group is the group which is interested not primarily in turning out a piece of entertainment as a piece of craftsmanship, which is exemplary of, a good example of their particular craft, but in turning out a product. A product, again, which we must get back to this, to this, this same problem each time, I think, when we, when we look at it from this angle. A product which is only so many feet of commodity sent out into the world in order to attract an audience into a building, which is part of the real estate problem which has been presented to you once before here tonight. Those two points of view are in constant clash with one another. The artist, I use that, that word in its most humble sense, the artist wishing to, wishing for a form of self-expression in his particular field, whether it be acting, directing or writing, wishing to do as all artists wish, to do the best that he possibly can, to perhaps do better than anyone has done before, to progress in his particular phase of the medium, his particular branch of the medium. And on the other hand, the point of view of the man who simply says, give me a picture, I've got theaters to fill, I want to send it out and try and fill these theaters. That clash of those two, of those two attitudes toward the so-called product of an industry is, to my mind, at times healthy, at other times unhealthy. It is healthy in one sense because, in spite of the product attitude, it takes a great deal of courage, a great deal of conviction on the part of the creator in California, in Hollywood today, to overcome that attitude of product and think in terms of creation, of a piece of fine entertainment. It is discouraging because of the economic hold that the product attitude has on the creative group. So, in my opinion, I assure you a very humble one, in my opinion, the thing that prevents the public, in many, many instances, from getting what it wants in terms of numbers of good films over a period of a year is the hold of that economic and product group over the creative group. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Which leads us, I think, delightfully into another aspect of the same question of the conflict between spontaneous creative work and its commercialization. And I'd like to turn to you, Miss Pickford, now, and ask you, because you, after all, in a sense, are the creation of the system, what, in the perspective of your retrospect, you think about the modern adaptation of what is called the star system? Does it add to the virtue of a film? Has it become a component of commercial exploitation? Where do you think the star of today stands in the heavens of filmmaking? And where should he or she stand? Well, I think that today that the star is overexploited. I think there's too much publicity about their home life, what they do when they're off the screen. I think that the glamour that used to surround the stars of other days has totally disappeared. And therefore, when someone, when an actress, we'll call her Minnie Zug, is so well known to the audience that when she steps into the role of Queen Victoria or Queen Elizabeth, she's more Minnie Zug than she is the Queen. I regret that the studios, of course, the stars, we must play along with the writers and the magazines and the papers. They're our good friends and they help us along the way. Of course, a star is only one part of it because there are hands on that upward climb held out to us. We have cameras, cameramen, writers, directors, hairdressers, innumerable hands held out to us to help us over the steep places and the very difficult climb. But I do regret that there isn't more mystery about the stars today. And on the other hand, I don't think that no matter how clever, how beautiful a star may be, or handsome, that he can make a bad story good on the screen. On the other hand, an unknown actor may step into stardom overnight because of that role. I think people are too typed in Hollywood today, although I was typed too. I didn't want to play a little girl all the time, but... I was happy and pleasing the people who cared to come to see me. So they were typing even way back then. I'm sure they didn't want to see Bill Hart play D'Artagnan, for example. Or even beyond Bill Hart. I don't know if there are many in the audience who remembered... What was his name? Wild Bill? Well, Bronco Billy, that's it. Bronco Billy. So he too was typed. No, I think stars help a good picture. I don't think they help a poor one. Thank you very much, Miss Pickford. Now, to you, Arthur Mayer. You, in terms of my summary of criticisms, came off badly in your representative capacity... ...as one who has both distributed and exhibited films. These words of Mankiewicz, I think, will probably rankle with you. Quarrel with them, as you will, and give us the true perspective of the role of the distributor-exhibitor... ...in this complicated chain. There's between art at one end and the commercial product at the other. And don't forget that we keep this in reference to the audience and the bearing of this complex... ...to the question, does the public get what it wants? Well, Charles, this is the end of a perfect friendship. A discussion like this is only fun for all concerned if it is highly acrimonious. So permit me to get the acrimony started by saying that I violently disagree with practically everything I've heard so far this evening. It's pleasant to see I might have some support from the audience, even if I'm not going to have much up here. Let me exclude Ms. Pickford's remarks, which I'm in clear agreement. I would wish I had the time to... ...in this first round, I hope I will have the time later, to tell Gilbert Sellys to what an extent his friends, the vice presidents, have been misleading him. And I also would like to argue a little bit with Bob Montgomery, if I have the courage, he's a hard man to argue with... ...about this supposed clash between commerce and art in Hollywood. But for the time being, I think I'd better restrain myself and simply concentrate on the vicious falsehood, only the libel laws prevent my making it stronger... ...that there is a villain in the movie set up, which I deny, and the villain is the exhibitor, which I deny even more vigorously. This theory, as you know, was faced... well, not faced, but was propounded by a very distinguished creator of fiction, Mr. Mankiewicz, who outdid himself on that occasion. It seems that I am one of a group of uncouth real estate operators, who ought to be taking gum off the carpets and probably the bottom of the seats... ...and spending our time in the balconies to see that there is not undue lovemaking proceeding there. Instead of which, we have taken upon ourselves to dictate to our betters in Hollywood as to what pictures should or should not be made. Now all of this, in my opinion, is just absolute and unadulterated baloney. I have been in the motion picture industry longer than Miss Pickford. Indeed, I went into it because I fell in love with her when I was in college. I worked both as a theatre operator for the major companies, also as an independent operator for some 25 to 30 years. I'm highly articulate, as this audience will find out to its cost before the evening is over. As you see, I'm now highly inarticulate. Proceed. Would I have the special exemption from the Pope to go a little further or should I stop now? Proceed, brother. Because if you stop me, I will be convinced that the only reason you're doing so is that you're afraid of what I'm going to say. Let me say that never in my experience has anyone ever paid the faintest attention to any suggestion that I ever made about what pictures to make or... And let me add that I know every important exhibit... This time ought to be counted out, you know. You ought to have a stopwatch. I know every important exhibitor in the country. Not a single one has ever succeeded in exercising any direct influence on the selection of pictures by the major companies. I say direct because it might be assumed ordinarily that, as in other industries, the retailer would affect the nature of the product by a selection of what to purchase or what not to purchase. But in the motion picture business, as you know, by a singular device known as block booking, which was recently declared illegal by the courts, the exhibitor had to take all of the pictures offered to him by the distributor, good, bad and indifferent, much as you ladies in the audience buy your strawberries or raspberries. Only the grocer puts the big juicy ones on the top with you, whereas the picture distributors didn't even have to bother to do anything of that sort with us exhibitors. Now, I not only deny in the half a minute left of me that the exhibitor affects the selection of pictures, I also resent the suggestion that if he did affect them, he would affect them very injuriously. On the contrary, in the few cases where an exhibitor has battled his way to the head of a producing company, almost invariably this chewing gum manipulator proves a highly effective president. At the present moment, for instance, 20th Century Fox is unquestionably turning out the best pictures made in Hollywood. His president is Mr. Spiros Scuris, a former exhibitor and a very successful one. I've got lots more to say. Did I hear a bell or didn't I? You'll hear a bell. I think we'll close you there. Oh, let me add one paragraph. The protest is one paragraph you may go. Basically, I feel that I have no place on this program because although I'm an importer and an exhibitor of films for many years, I haven't got the faintest idea, I want to confess it now, what we're talking about, what the public wants. I don't think many of you have any idea of what the public wants and I know the public has no idea of what it wants. But, ladies and gentlemen, if I must accept someone's judgment on this mooted question, I am inclined to accept that of the grassroot exhibitor, the man who lives and mingles with his patrons, with the common people of his community, rather than that of the average Hollywood producer, who derives his knowledge of the American people, who is the most part of the public. Who derives his knowledge of the American people from the restaurants and the hot nightclubs of Los Angeles and New York, and who hasn't the faintest contact and ever intends to have the faintest contact with the residents of Kankakee or Keokot or Keewanee. That's a very long paragraph. I will now relax into silence for more time. Thank you, Arthur. Reverting now to something that Mr. Seldes said earlier, and trying to bring this discussion back from chaos and confusion, to the subject matter of this insoluble problem of what the public wants. Gilbert suggested, at least in part, that what the public wants can never be properly understood or discovered until the public has full access to what others want to say to it. The control, in other words, upon the power of self-expression is, in some sense, a measure of the public's need and of the public's capacity to respond. Now, Miss Janice Loeb represents, in a sense, a newcomer to films. She has moved in as a newcomer with this magnificent picture that we've all seen, and I'm very curious to hear her speak of her experience and of her attitude to this question of whether the public gets what it wants, from the point of view of one who has attempted this business of self-expression in a modest way and achieved phenomenal success, at least in terms of public acclaim, and what, in effect, her point of view on Mr. Mayer's and anybody else's remarks may be. Well, Mr. Mayer from Los Angeles is a shock, and I'll have to pick those up later in the pre-for-all. So I'll pretend that you haven't scored. On this occasion or something later? Oh, no, later. Just a little while later. This is too difficult. A lot of points were brought up that sort of rang a bell. As far as my experience is concerned, we've only made one small picture, and its success and distribution were a complete accident. It was made as an institutional documentary. One distributor, Mayer Burstein, as a matter of fact, had the courage to take it, and everything that happened then came as a total surprise to us. What happened was that all kinds of strange people from all walks of life, walking to the little Carnegie, cripples, Indians, Barbie Soxes, an incredible number of Barbie Soxes, came out in tears, said, this is the story of my life. This was also said by the head of an enormous corporation who saw the picture. Somewhere or other, we seemed to have hit people someplace close to themselves. Now, I don't think it's because it was an extraordinary picture. It was, I think, an honest picture, a real picture about real people and real emotions. I hate to say this about us as a company, because this is the opposite of giving us plugs in a way, but I think the success of the picture was directly related to the low level of movies in general. I wouldn't say, I don't mean low level as much too blank a word. The tendency to formula, to gloss, to a curious sort of cynicism, which is reflected in the formula about human behavior, and the fact that our picture, to a large extent, tried to say very direct and real things about people, is, I think, the reason that it clicked. Now, I would... Something that Mr. Seldy said about... that Hollywood creates the... creates what the public wants and then proceeds to satisfy it is something that meant a lot to me at this point, because it made me want to say immediately, we don't want to satisfy the needs that Hollywood creates. Now, as far as the public is concerned, I think that if you have a chance to present them with something else, and it is good, I don't mean that it's arty and therefore slow and dull, but good in... also in theatrical terms, in the same terms that Hollywood wants to make a good picture, something that's a really exciting emotional experience, I think that there's a good chance the public will take it. But one of the things is, a picture like that needs nursing until the public does take it. But where we come upon this business of having to satisfy the demands that Hollywood creates is when we try to finance a picture. I mean, it's very trite, but the crux of the matter is that pictures cost money. Even a small company with no overhead trying to make a 35mm theatrical picture can't do it under $100,000. That's for simple production. And that for us is more than a million for Hollywood, for a small group. Now, you go to the banks, and they say, have you got a major release to get financing? The banks, the distributor, except for extraordinary exceptions like Mayor Burstein, the exhibitors, want to know precisely, does your picture have a star? Is your picture what the public wants? All we can say is we don't know. The public's never seen it. We, um... At this point, we're trying to make a second picture, which one has no start, has six main characters. It has no simple statement at the end. It's ambiguous and paradoxical, as we think life is, and therefore very interesting to us. I know of no picture that's been made like that. You go with a script like that to anybody for financing, uh, overbacking. Before the picture has already become a success because somebody brave like Mr. Mayor has nursed it along, and it's just impossible to get started. Uh, this is... He said she was going to ask me what was the fight of the independent producer, and this is it. And I think I'll save the rest for later. That's a melancholy story, to say the least of it. May I... May I cheer up the situation by... by now saying that I would like very much to have the privilege of distributing your next picture? Thank you. At least we were able to make some progress this evening. Thank you. That is commercial number three. There's one topic that I raised that no one has touched on. To me, it does still seem to me an important aspect of the whole problem of films and the satisfaction of the public need. And that is what is called censorship, and is an aspect of that question that I raised of the fear of giving offence couched in terms of the commercial consequences of so doing. It's a nice and a delicate problem, and I'd very much like to ask you, Miss Pickford, what your view on the general question of censorship in films is with respect to the question of whether the public get what it wants. Well, I say that the producers are practically put in a straitjacket. We're naturally, we're terrified of them because they can keep them out of whole territories unless we sometimes cut the film to pieces. To whom are you referring, Miss Pickford? The censor boards? The censor boards, yes, and the different leagues. If we don't get a certificate from certain leagues, people stay away in masses. They won't go in the theater. Our company, United Artists, has had the great, in fact, we had it, my husband and I, and a picture we produced called Sleep by Love. We had difficulty with that. It was a murder story. A man is giving his wife sedatives, and she makes, she believes she's losing her mind. We had quite a, we had quite a time with that picture. Mr. Montgomery, any comments? Censorship? Mm-hmm. Well, before we get, may I, before we, before I start the censorship, any comment that I may timidly make on the problem of censorship, may I say that I think that we have seen between the point of view of Mrs. Kahn, the point of view of Mr. Meyer, he exemplified what we were talking about a few minutes ago. Mrs. Kahn spoke rather tenderly and I thought rather delicately about the creation of a piece of of entertainment in terms of the creative groups. Mr. Kahn, and I mean this, or Mr. Meyer, and I mean this certainly with no disrespect because Mr. Meyer has his problem and it is peculiarly the exhibitor's problem, spoke in terms, if I remember correctly, of comparative selling of raspberries and strawberries in terms of what he had to sell. Not for one moment do I, in spite of the fact that he has threatened me with this argument which I hope we have, not for one moment do I minimize Mr. Meyer's point of view on that. He has a problem, it's a very sound economic problem. If Mr. Meyer takes a film into his theater which does no business and takes a second and a third which do even less business, eventually Mr. Meyer has no theater. That's a cinch. But the point of view expressed by Mr. Meyer and the point of view expressed by Mrs. Kahn I think very fully exemplify what we were discussing here in terms of the artistic effort versus the industry effort. Censorship. We have had, we've been belabored in the motion picture business by censorship as far back as I can remember and we've been pretty badly beaten by it. I think that there is literally in many, many instances more fear of censorship than there is censorship in films. You go to work on a story today and in attempting to work out that story the censors have in the studio a man who works right along I won't say he works right along with you on the story but he watches the progress of that story with a keen and what I consider a pretty nasty eye. In most instances I may say the only and I hate to indulge in any form of personal reminiscence regarding this but in most instances where I've become involved with the censors the censors have pointed out something to me that so helped me I never knew existed when we created it. I'm mildly bitter on that basis because I didn't seem to learn and felt terribly stupid after 20 years of still having censors say but don't you see what you've done here when I really didn't. I am not trying to say that my attitude toward these various pieces of entertainment was that of a sort of pseudo literary Sir Galahad but on the other hand I didn't quite see some of the horrid connotations that the censor pointed out to me. As a shining example I will tell you that we wrote a story one time which involved a young lady aged 17 and her crush on an older man and during the course of a dinner which he was a friend of her family's and he'd asked her to go to dinner with him and all unknown to him she worshipped and adored him. Well she took him to dinner and during the course of dinner she had in the early part of the picture she had heard somebody say that possibly a cocktail before dinner was the proper thing to make a man to whom you were attracted feel even more attracted to you so in a very childish way I assure you it was childish she kept asking him if he didn't want another drink the scene we actually got to the point of shooting this and the scene was played by a very charming actress who was very good in the part and the scene was terribly cute it was sort of in the I would say about as vicious as anything Booth Talkington could ever have written the censors clamped down on this scene as saying that it was one of the most horrid scenes that they had ever witnessed and I for the life of me who had rolled in the aisles during the playing of this scene with this child couldn't understand what that was all about and then with a perfectly straight face I asked him if he could suggest something that we might do that would relieve the terrible tension of the scene for this horrified audience who would view this vicious piece of work on the part of this Booth Talkington child he informed me that he thought he could but he'd have to go away and consult with several other rather dirty minds and then come back and he returned with the following solution that it would be a very nice idea if instead of liquor she put a sleeping pill in his I know of no better way to make my attitude towards censorship clear than to tell you that story thank you very much it is a free for all come in I want to hurry up and get over on Mr. Meyer's side I want to tell him I'm entirely on the side of the distributor but before I do that I do want to make you one short quote about the production code which Mr. Montgomery probably has run up against the production code has also an explanation and it has reasons it's a long document and it defines the triangle the triangle in marriage and it says a triangle can be used it does occur in human life it admits that it can be used and this is the definition of the triangle this I've ripped down so we have it textually the triangle is the love of a third party for one already married now out of that you can only get comedy because it never is the love of a married person for a third party that is what the code is based on a complete and total hypocrisy and it's only saving graces of course that it isn't always adhered to but it is the thing more than anything else that makes the product of Hollywood purely mythological and not really nourishing Sam Goldwyn said we end up with a lot of little empty fairy tales that mean little or nothing as far as ordinary life goes and Sam Goldwyn has made some pictures and has made some money out of them I do however in self protection against the future may I say one thing about the distributor the whole attack on the distributor as a person who unduly influences the choice of subjects is totally apart from the main point the trouble is not with the individual distributor it's with the distribution system which compels a picture to make its money fast at certain times and the individual distributor has very little control over it the example that I think is most conspicuous in the last two years was the treasure of the Sierra Madre which was put into a big house failed to make its way instantly and was yanked out compared to that the fate of a picture like Hamlet or Henry V or the fallen idol and several others the people who foresaw this necessity of having another distribution system and not different individual distributors not Herman Mankiewicz in 1949 but in 1939 Mr. Walter Wanger who was also made millions of dollars for his companies by his regular commercial pictures Walter Wanger outlined this entire thing and said so long as we only have this one system distribution which is for average pictures for average audiences that have to pay off right away we can never make the kind of pictures we all want to make and that is the real crux of the matter and not the intelligence and the charm and the beauty of all the distributors in America for whom we all have the highest respect as usual I'm torn I don't know whether to answer Mr. Seldes or Mr. Montgomery let me first try and tackle Mr. Montgomery because I think he has my raspberries and strawberries all strewn around the sidewalk and getting considerably confused I wasn't favoring the selling of pictures like raspberries and strawberries and souls I was protesting against it I was saying I didn't want them all lumped in a basket without any privilege of choosing between them I want to buy my pictures my motion pictures as I would buy you know the sort of pictures that don't move these still pictures that we see in this museum here that's the way I'd like to buy pictures I want to look at them individually and decide which I would like to show to my friends and which I do not wish to show to my friends on the censorship issue I will pass over it very rapidly because I have a shameful confession I have to make and I'm really terrified to make it sitting so close to Mr. Montgomery and that is I have just returned from Germany where I was a censor myself and this was really a very horrible experience and I'll gloss over it as rapidly as possible they say that power corrupts but in my case I think the only thing that it ruined was the little eyesight and intelligence that have been left after 20 years in the motion picture business I don't think I should get into this issue of censorship abroad though much as the subject fascinates me I would like to get to maybe to the discussion of this conflict between big business and art between commercialism and art that Mr. Montgomery spoke about get that out of my system leaving Seldes and his vice presidents to a later date now this battle between big business and art sounds to me a great deal like the hooey about the battle between the sexes of which we hear so much but which seems to me to be settled in everyday life frequently and satisfactorily by a happy conjunction of the male and the female there are pictures of course which are hopelessly commercial and there are other pictures which are hopelessly highbrow but the great heart of moviedom its glory its ultimate justification is that it's a mass medium of people's art speaking to the common man in simple terms which all can understand and all can love long ago to his undying credit Mr. Seldes pointed out how the people had taken Charlie Chaplin to their hearts long before the learned pundits had ever heard of him and the same was true of Disney and WG Fields and Mae West and a score of others I consider personally that the Hope Crosby pictures like The Road to Utopia are a high form of national expression as well as a very profitable one Mr. Montgomery has contributed unforgettable pictures to my way of thinking like The Night Shall Fall and The Earl of Chicago and Ms. Pickford's contributions to the art of the film are too many for me to mention on this occasion of course I'm scared of this word art and I use first of all I'm afraid someone here is going to challenge me and ask me what I mean by art and I haven't got the plainest answer to them and secondly because it's become so encangled in modern life with the esoteric and the incomprehensible but using art for the want of a better way I would say that the movies are and can only be a successful mass industry to the extent that they remain a successful mass art whatever their critics may say of them by and large they represent to me the best enduring expression of the American dreams and the American tradition that's why I'm so proud of being in the movie industry and that's why I so deeply resent hearing it unfairly criticized so you've got the end of your script at last I have a lot more to say if you give me an opportunity got more pages interrupted Mr. Montgomery first please let me assure you Mr. Meyer that you know I am probably committing suicide industrial suicide by what you are construing as a brisk attack on you I but you have you have suggested in talking about what I said before in this split between the points of view between the producing group or what we will call industrial group and the so-called creative group that one does not superimpose itself upon the other too heavily and that if it does something good will perhaps come of it you rather touched my heart when you mentioned a picture which you know heaven help you you're in for personal reminiscence now when you mentioned a picture which I made in 1936 called Night Must Fall and thank you very much I am again very much touched I would just like to tell you how the industrial and the creative clashed in the making of that picture as briefly as I can I hope you'll give me ten seconds beyond the bell the story was as you know the picture was a play before it was a picture it was written by Mr. Emlyn Williams and was played by him with tremendous success in London for almost two years I saw it in the latter part of its run I fell very much in love of it I did the best imitation of him I knew how and we I asked Metro Golden Mayor to whom I was under contract at the time I asked them to purchase that to make a picture out of that play it took me a considerable length of time to convince them a that it was something that could be made out of into a picture and B that I was supposed to do it and it was only after I had gotten into an intramural fight with them on the basis of some industrial relations that they consented to my making the picture at all this I am convinced was with the fond hope that it would ruin me I am forced to believe that that is true because during the course of the making of the picture no one connected with the studio would have anything to do with the making of the picture except the people immediately connected with the production no producer no executive in the studio wanted to see any foot of the rushes they were so terrified that they might in some way be held responsible for this thing we finished the film and it was taken out for its usual preview and at the preview when I arrived I was handed a large piece of paper upon which was printed and this was being passed out to the audience which said Metro Golden Mayor wishes to state that they had nothing to do with the selection of this story it is entirely Mr. Montgomery's responsibility and then they sat and looked at me before the lights went out and the following day I went back to the studio and was handed the script of a trailer in which they said to a camera and a microphone and to these spellbound audiences that I suppose were going to eventually face this trailer I want to assure you that the studio had nothing to do with it now I cannot believe that this was an effort on the part of the studio to give me showman I can only believe that they hated every moment of what I thought was something quite beautiful thank you time is moving along a great deal faster than is comfortable I think we must bring the free for all at this end of the table to a close and throw the meeting over to the audience because it's very important that you should come in but I think all of you would be disappointed if we closed this aspect of the session without at least one final word from Mary Pickford in terms of anything that she has to say to us or had on her mind relationship wondering to house these book after marriage and they told us, they gave us a figure of nearly 11,000. In speaking to my representative, my literary representative, he said, oh, it's very much more than that. And I said, how many bestsellers are there out of that, say, 11, 14, 15,000 books a year? He said, I would say under 100. Then I was curious, I didn't get the information, however, but how many plays are produced here in New York in a season, and how many succeed? And as Shakespeare said, the play is the thing. We're all only as good as the play the material. So you see, in turning out 500 pictures a year, it's a very great task for Hollywood. I think that we independents are much more fortunate than those who are working for the majors, because they must go through this terrific machine. It's, well, you can't imagine the politics that go on there. I think Mr. Montgomery knows more about that than I do, because I'm a rebel. I've always been one. And I quit the majors, the Paramount Company, because they were making me do little pictures, three bad ones in a row. And I bought Daddy Long Legs and was determined to go out on my own. And I did, and I've been on my own ever since. It hasn't been too comfortable, I'll tell you that, though. Sometimes it's nice to rely on a big staff of writers. But when you think of an idea, an original idea, having to pass through so many minds, with each new mind that comes along, it loses a part of its essence, its original essence, so that we at no time, or they at no time, know when they lose the spark of that story. They probably call in ten, twelve people. The independents are much better off. For instance, this fine picture, this English picture I saw recently. Three men, isn't that it? Yes. Third man. Third man. Yes, there's one with three men, too. Third man. I'm sure that there was one mind alone that directed that whole thing. There's D.W. Griffith, there's Charles Chaplin, so many of the fine producers, and all came from the ranks of our company, the United Artists, which was started 31 years ago and is a distributing company, and does sell pictures, or is supposed to at least, on their individual merit. At that time, four of us grouped together, four people, Duggas Fairbanks, Charles Chaplin, D.W. Griffith, and myself, and we were determined to stand upon our own two feet, and that we didn't want to be sold along with the other's pictures, which is the custom was then, still is, that pictures are sold in groups, as Mr. Mayor has told you, good, bad, and indifferent. Well, we don't do that. And I'm very proud to say that I was a small part in forming that organization. I'm hopeful that Hollywood, with this divorcement from the theaters, will take production off the assembly line, and give more confidence to the producers, and to the directors, and let them go along in a small group, as Miss Loeb is doing, and not interfere with them constantly. I think that that is one of the great faults of pictures today. But I don't think that we're any work, we don't send any more than the authors, I mean, or the producers here in New York. If I could tell you, if any one of us at this table, these tables could tell you what the public wants, and could predict it, I'd say we could make $5 million a year. That's true in textiles, that's true in anything. No one knows what the public, all we have to do is to pray and to hope. Thank you. Miss, I'd like to quote something that Carol Reed, the director of Third Man said, which I think you will like very much, which I know Miss Loeb will like also enormously, which I think is very appropriate to our discussion. Oh, you back to your script again? This is just a quotation. I never know, I can't remember this quotation by heart, I'm sorry, I should have made it by heart. I never know what the public wants, I can only give them what I like, and then hope for the best. If what I like was consistently rejected by the public, I would get out of the business. End of the quote. You automatically? You automatically? Now for question time. I'm going to ask you to put your hands up, and I will put on my glasses so that I can possibly see you. I shall not be able to recognize you even if I know you. I should like to call on one speaker, whom I think everybody here would be glad to hear from, and without whom a discussion of the movies in this august building would really be wanting, and that is Miss Iris Barry. I can't see her. Thank you. Thank you. I don't need to play her anyway, but I'm going to boil it a bit. Thank you. Because there's so often happened in these discussions, if you remember, there seems to be some that there are some movies called. Some of them are awful, hollygory, and I've read the next few years, but that's a wonderful, that's true. And they're long enough for a film, and we're definitely to make a bad one, so couldn't we somehow sort of say you like films? I said I'd go. There's a question coming to the floor from Mr. Montgomery. Well, I just wanted to say that it was really our love for films that has brought us here tonight, if that's any compensation. Yes, sir. I'd like to ask Mr. Montgomery a question. Mr. Montgomery. Yes, sir. Do you think that when a picture has been subject to undue censorship, possibly a great many more people are made curious to see that picture than would be without the censorship? Assuming that's true, does that, in your estimation, some of the curse of censorship as a means of... If you are asking me whether attempted censorship or widely publicized censorship of a film is sometimes used as an exploitation of a film, is that what you mean? Yes. Yes. And whether I think that that is any excuse for censorship, the answer is first in the affirmative and second in the negative. Yes. Yes. I don't want to ask a question. I'm going to say something. Yes. I don't want to ask a question. I'm going to say something. Yes. Yes. Subject to the exoncies of the bell, well, you say it. Will you give us your name? Never mind. First of all, what Mr. Mayor said about the motion picture in this country, I subscribe to... Mr. Mayor said that the motion picture in this country was for the mass of people and was good and fine with time and, in French way, an art form. I believe in that. I believe that the enormous success of the movies for many years was due to that being the basis of the making of the motion picture. In recent years, the industry has grown overly self-conscious because a lot of people who, like the sound of their own voice, have sounded off in print and, oh, on the regular, I suppose, against the motion picture. The Christians have not always been valid. They have confused, I believe, the class or the party of the picture with movie going. Movie going does not consist of going to a motion picture, only. It consists of leaving your home and going to a place. And the place is almost as important as the film. And some of the lack of attendance, which has shown itself in financial discomfort, has been due to the fact that the movies are no longer as nice to go to as they once were. I'll come to that in a moment. What I was getting at was that... I doubt it. Originally, I wanted to say that from my point of view, which is not just that, I'm having to be associated with motion picture theaters, is that Mr. Mayor's feeling is correct. The ultra-artistic motion pictures have been placed too, as do more experimental things in other arts. But they are not the backbone for... You're one up on me, I think. Oh, you're a popular part. ...of film going. I also want to comment on Ms. Pickford's... ...diviation of... ...coherence that is compelling in a picture when one man is allowed to do it. Now, for 15 years, the Americans have been attacked by another picture. I'm afraid I'll have to ring you out. There is no time for long. I've got a reporter. Well, I have an idea, and I thought that the public... Is this a question or an idea? Well, I said, shall I come to you? I want to know what you think about that. Well, will you confine yourself to the time limits? I certainly will try. Why can't the public actually get a chance to choose what it would like? It does. I suggested, and I wrote away to Sid Skulski out in Hollywood, suggesting a popular request theater... ...where the movie-going public could actually choose what they would like to see. Now, I've come to this auditorium on a Sunday for certain pictures, and I could not get a ticket... ...although I came at least two hours before the first performances. Now, I don't feel that the audience that came here on that particular Sunday, or possibly many of us during the year... ...was entirely one interested in art. I believe they came to the film mainly. And I feel that if people actually would have a chance to choose the kind of pictures they would like... ...that the fears would begin to fill up again. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to address my question to a member of the panel who wants to pick it up. It's addressed to no one in particular. And it's this. Don't you think that in a discussion of this kind involving the public, that some effort ought to be made... ...that might lead to clarification and thinking... ...if we don't take this amorphous mass, the public, as a unit... ...but discuss it from the point of view of the kind of publics there are. If we do, if we analyze the public and think of it in terms of various groups... ...then I think we will better understand, perhaps... ...and this is still a question, but I'm trying to define my question... ...better understand the meaning of the small theaters, the large ones, the art theaters, and so on. And that, I think, we missed in this discussion. And I think it might be productive to get at that point of view. Thank you. I'm very happy this question came up because I was hoping that there would be time to discuss it. As you see, I told you before, I was very articulate. There are a lot of different publics in America, of course, and these publics have widely different tastes. There's a public which likes Westerns, and there's a public for Samson and Delilah. You may not like it very much, but it takes a strong man to laugh off a gross of domestic gross of $12 million... ...which is what Samson and Delilah will probably do. And there's a public for, to retain good for evil, there's a public for Mr. Mankiewicz's Letter to Three Wives... ...which I think is a magnificent comedy. And other comedies like It Happened One Night, and so on. And there's certainly a public for films like Miss Loeb's Quiet One. I think that's a growing public. I think it will grow constantly. And the appreciation of films of this nature grow, films like that and like The Titan. We're going to get far away from those disastrous days, not so many years ago, when pictures like Greed and Zola... ...and Long Voyage Home and Oxbow Incident were unable to find the sort of audiences to which they would appeal. It's not usual for a moderator to introduce a question, but I'm very tempted to do so in response to what you've said, Arthur. Do you not think that our conception of the scope for film-going is much distorted by our presence here and our residents in this New York City? There is a choice of films, a Catholicity of taste available to us here that is quite remarkable. There are an extraordinary range of films to be seen. But when we go to the sticks, the average American community, do you believe that there is the scope for the choice that you describe... ...in terms of the growing edge of taste in terms of such films as you've spoken of? Yes, unfortunately, the taste in the sticks differs very strongly from the taste in New York. You know the picture which is most popular in the sticks at the present time? Most of you never heard of it. It's Mar and Pa Kettle. It's doing incredible business all over the country. It's keeping Universal out of bankruptcy. It's so such a... There's our speaker behind you first, if you don't mind. This is the impromptu time of the evening when the typewritten questions are set up, so if you don't mind, I won't add Liv. I won't answer the notes that I have here. And it seems to me that we've been skirting all around the central questions. A lot of points have been brought up. One of them by the person sitting in the seat next to me when he suddenly said, Does Dostoevsky ask who the audience is? You know, or what it wants? There's something to that. And it brings up a point that I'd like to make, which is, not so much, does the public want better pictures? I think that by and large the public is beginning to want better pictures. The question is, and this is really directed at Mr. Montgomery as the representative of the producers, does the producer want better pictures? You've directed and produced pictures, and that's why I'm thinking on you and thinking on you. What I'd like to ask you is really, do you specifically want to make better pictures? And before you answer that, there are two or three things that have to be said. And that is, you can make an expensive film, or you can make, as a great number of the B pictures are, less than half a million dollar pictures. It's lower budgets. Now, there are two kinds of producers, of directors, the kinds that make the expensive films, and those that make the lower budget films. And it's the good producers, the William Wilders, the John Fords, and so forth, and the Mr. Montgomery's, who make the more expensive films. And they use stars, in your case yourself. Now, would you, sir, end your parenthesis and put your question? I'm coming to the point. That is, that this makes it, the whole idea is that they begin to use money instead of imagination. And they begin to use stars instead of talent. And, you know, I don't mean that personally, I mean that. I mean, Mr. DeSegre uses talent and found somebody who could do the part. It was a male-made person, and he's turning into an actor just like that. Those films, Mr. DeSegre makes his films on a low budget. Sir, would you put a question rather than making a statement? I am not coming to this. All of this is very necessary. The question is, is Mr. Montgomery, and are the producers by and large, willing, not to use, are they willing to make grade B budget pictures and use imagination instead of money, and take a smaller salary, and make money on the film since they will be using a low budget? So I, that is, okay. The question is, are you willing to? Well, now, may I rephrase the question? Because once I got lost there. Only once. Thank you. You're asking me, you're asking me if the producers in the motion picture industry would be willing to make low-cost, high-quality pictures. I believe I better end there. That's pretty much what the question is. The directors, I think. The directors, not the producers. Take a smaller salary, work on a lower budget. Take the more- Well, again, again, look, in answering and attempting to answer that question, because I must plead a certain amount of ignorance on the point of view of a lot of these fellows that I know out there who are directing pictures, but I can make a pretty good guess at some of their points of view. Again, we must differentiate. If we're going to talk in terms of low-budget pictures and individual effort put into pictures and production costs kept down, not for the sake of keeping down production costs, but for the sake of stimulating and imaginative and creative effort in relationship to that picture, we must differentiate between the thinking that goes on in the major field and the thinking that goes on in the independent field. That point, I believe, has been touched on once or twice tonight. Now, again, I'm sorry that I have to recourse to this, but in my particular case, I cannot afford to spend a great deal of money on a motion picture as an independent producer. Therefore, I have to, A, select a story which I think has quality and has an imagination in its creation. I have to try and produce or direct that film with all the skill and craft at not only my command, but at the command of the people who work with me. On the other hand, I think, and this may sound completely cliche, but I think it's true, that when you are not forced to do that sometimes, and you can turn around and recourse in your thinking to spending an extra $200,000 and try to make the film a commercial success, that that being the line of least resistance, that in many instances is followed. In California, there are about eight or ten directors who I think would do anything to become part of any motion picture, to be part of any motion picture, which raised the level of, again, that horrid word, art of making motion pictures a greater art. Does that... Does that... I'm delighted that the hand should still be going up, but the time is passing. I think we must limit it to one further question, and... Mr. Pono O'Bone, I said... Oh, no. Excuse me. I... Yes, sir. Mr. Mayor, why... I'll answer you later on... Excuse me. Why... I'm sorry. I asked you more question and question. I never did ask the question, so I'm sorry. I'll take it. The question was... I can't answer your question. I don't know why. I think, however, that in a big city such as New York, Mr. Seidman may later on say that this is not a valid answer. I think in a large city like New York, you have a very ample selection at the present time. They're probably playing in New York City. They present a hundred different pictures of every variety, Italian, French, British, and American. And I would be... Do not believe that any movie lover could fail to find among those pictures some pictures that he desired to see. Yes, sir. I should like to remark very quickly as an aside, the own question of money versus talent. I read in Variety last summer, a quite well-known producer... A quite well-known producer in Hollywood said, it doesn't take money to make good pictures. Money means nothing at all. You have to have many good brains... Give me brains and I'll make good pictures. But that's beside the point. The... Well, may we come to it? The point is I'd like... The point is I'd like to make... One is a good deal too much about what the public wants, about feeding the public a lot of tabulance. I mean, the dramatic art has always been faced with the question of box office. One has to play theatre to an audience. You can't just sit down at a typewriter and bang on a story. You have to have somebody to talk to. You have to have an audience. And Shakespeare was faced with the same problem. Only he said in Hamlet's advice to the players, This overdone or come tarly off, though it make the unskillful laugh, cannot make the judicious grieve. The point is then that you can put out stuff which will attract the audience, and at the same time you can inject argument, you want to call it that. The thing is that the business aspects of the theatre and the art aspects don't have to be disassociated. There is no reason to say that the public wants this or that. You say, I'm going to produce a good picture, and I'll produce such a picture that the public will go to, but it will be an artistic picture. Good. How's it going? It's very good. It is now definitely past closing time. And it remains, I think, only to thank the members of this panel for making a confused subject doubly confused. And to thank you in the audience for your presence and compounding the felony. Thank you again for that. Thank you very much, yes. He was having unexpected skins! Thank you very much, thanks. Good event be the last visit. Thank you thank you. Good night! Thank you! Thank you! Thank you. Good night. Good night. Thank you very much. Good night. Good night. Good night. Good night. Thank you. Good night. Good night. Good night.