More than any other thing, what has made New York City great has been its incomparable harbor and surrounding waters. These waters, providing some of the most beautiful beaches for the health and recreation of New Yorkers, have long been abused. But determined strides now promise to overcome the mistakes of the past. And this summer, dumping of household and industrial wastes, at present polluting our finest bathing beaches, will cease. In just a moment we'll tell you how Operation Cleanup, stretching over many years, has reached the point where it will eliminate the critical pollution at Coney Island and the west coast of Brooklyn from Bay Ridge to Graves End Bay. This is Engineers Week by proclamation of the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. It is with pleasure that we bring you this special recorded program honoring the contributions of engineers to civilization. Later in the program we shall hear from the Honorable Albert Morgan, Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, City of New York, representing the Honorable Frederick H. Zermulin, Commissioner of the Department. Mr. Joseph Darcy, District Engineer of the State Department of Public Works, Mr. John Rydell, Chief Engineer of the Board of Estimate of the City of New York, and Mr. Carl M. Gilt, Vice President of New York State Society of Professional Engineers. We are indebted to Commissioner Zermulin for arranging this program and the dramatization of Operation Cleanup, a story of the construction of the Owl's Head Pollution Control Plant in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. And now we shall hear the story of Operation Cleanup. Look at all that filth pouring into the water from that huge sewer outlet. Why, the whole Bay Ridge Shore is a mess. It's pretty sad, Francis. It sure doesn't enhance the view of these homes and apartment houses up the hill. It sure doesn't enhance the looks of things down at Coney Island either, John. Have you been at Coney Island and seen the condition of that water? Yes. All this dirt is swept by the current to the west end of Coney Island. It's serious. They ought to do something about it. They ought to, and they did. Once the city fathers made the decision that all recreational and bathing waters must be cleaned up by 1953, the engineers took over, engineers of the city's Department of Public Works. It was their job to determine how the household wastes of a million people living in Brooklyn should be rendered harmless and disposed of expeditiously and economically. It was their job to provide this service for a population greater than that of Baltimore, living in an area comprising more than one-fourth of Brooklyn and the size of Manhattan Island. They recommended construction of a pollution plant in Bay Ridge to treat 160 million gallons of waste a day. But there were many obstacles in the way. A sewage disposal plant. So near our homes. It'll be an eyesore. And can you imagine the dust and soot that will come out of it? Not to mention the gorgeous odors. Right off Owl's Head Park, too, and the Bell Parkway. How can they be so stupid as to pick this location? The land here slopes away steeply, and there's little space between the parkway and the shoreline for the big plant they'll need. I wonder how they'll solve that. I don't care how they solve it. I think the city ought to be stopped from going ahead with this project. Why, it's sure to depreciate property values here above. We should go into court if necessary to prevent this outrage from being perpetrated right at our doorstep. They solved it, the engineers did. They planned to create land where there was none before. They planned to fill in along the shore. In addition to other fill material, thousands of tons of rubble brought over in ballast by ships during World War II were unloaded at the point to provide sufficient room for the huge plant. The engineers took into consideration the objections of nearby residents. Patiently, they pointed out that no soot or dust would emanate from the plant, since it would be operated on electricity generated from the gas recovered during the sewage treatment process. They provided for enclosure of the aeration and digestion tanks, and against the scape of possible odors through ozonation of the air in the buildings before they are allowed to escape into the outside atmosphere. But the people were still unconvinced. They're sugarcoating the sewage disposal plant, that's all. I don't believe their fancy promises of ozonation and whatnot. I still say they ought to build it somewhere else. It'll depreciate property values, I tell you. Ah, the court case is going too slow. We ought to have a law against building the Owl's Head plant. I think it would be a shame to have this fine residential section destroyed. And I will introduce a bill to prevent construction of disposal plants nearer than 1,500 feet to any homes. So the engineers took time out and showed that most of the important disposal plants in the city had been built nearer than 1,500 feet to homes, and with beneficial results not only to the surrounding waters, but the nearby communities themselves. They revived considerations of other locations, including building an artificial island offshore and using a dock area. But they found that in each case, the cost to the city would be vastly more. They again recommended construction at the Owl's Head site. During the war, the filling-in operation had continued. To make possible construction of the main buildings still farther from the residences, and to locate the main buildings on the firmest part of the land, the old Edison Company power plant was acquired. The city council held hearings on the site. The board of estimate and the mayor investigated. Finally, the board gave the go-ahead signal for the project. Enclosure of the aeration and digestion tanks will increase the cost of the plant. And that is difficult for the city to take, since costs of materials and labor already have risen. There must be a way of shortening the treatment process. If there's a way to shorten the time which the polluted matter has to stay in the aeration and digestion tanks, we could process the same amount with a smaller plant. We have already conducted some experiments along those lines. Perhaps we could utilize those experiments and redesign the plant to reduce the cost. Think of the money it would save, not only at Owl's Head, but in construction of all the other plants in the city's anti-pollution program. And the engineers did it. The new treatment process developed by the city engineers of the Department of Public Works made it possible to offset the increased cost of the Owl's Head plant due to the need for enclosing the aeration and digestion tanks in buildings. And the city was in a position to save additional millions on its overall pollution control program. And so a new kind of plant was designed. To make it not only efficient from the engineering point of view, but pleasing architecturally, an outstanding architect who had done a great deal of work for the Park Department was engaged. Many people who lived in Bay Ridge and who checked on the plans began to think that the Owl's Head plant would turn out to be an improvement for their community. We find that after checking the facts and plans that there is no soot or dust to come from this plant. We find that the buildings will be unobjectionable in appearance and partly screen out the Long Island Railroad freight yard to the north. We find that every precaution has been taken against the escape of odors. There will be no heavy trucking of materials. All sludge will be pumped on special sludge vessels that will be loaded at a dock adjoining the plant and will be taken out to sea for disposal. I can't see how it would depreciate property values. No. Clean waters along the Bay Ridge shore instead of eight sewers dumping refuse into it, as now, should improve the view. Although civic opposition abated, there were many engineering difficulties to be removed. There was the problem of carrying huge interceptor sewers across the railroad tracks, permission to get from the Army to build the sewers through the Brooklyn Army base, disposal of the sunken hulls of old wooden vessels at the foot of 68th Street, but the engineers solved all these problems. And so, about 30 years after the original proposal by engineers that something be done about pollution on the West Brooklyn shorefront, contracts were let and construction started. It's a great improvement, not only for the people of Bay Ridge, but for the entire city. It means elimination of 120 million gallons of pollution from the beaches. It means the reclamation of waters and bathing beaches, not only at Coney Island, but across the harbor on Staten Island. It means another contribution by engineers to making the lives of our people safer and more pleasant. It means engineering of future welfare by engineering for society as a whole. The Owl's Head Pollution Control Plant was completed and will be in full operation shortly, a monument to engineering ingenuity and dedicated to the service of humanity. You have just heard Operation Cleanup, a story based on the construction of the Owl's Head Pollution Control Plant in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Featured in today's presentation was Arthur Seeland, narrator. Other cast members were Marilyn Arms, Westcott Carpenter, Jay Easton, and Robert Essen. Music effects by George Morrison. Carol Schnapp was production assistant. Your announcer has been Shelley Dobbins. Operation Cleanup was written by Ernest Neufeld. And here now is the Honorable Albert Morgan, Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Public Works of the City of New York. Mr. Morgan. I have with me Mr. Carl M. Gill, Vice President of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers. Mr. Joseph J. Darcy, District Engineer of the State Department of Public Works. And Mr. John C. Riddell, the Veteran Chief Engineer of the Board of Estimate and a member of the City Planning Commission. Operation Cleanup, which we have just heard dramatized, the story of the construction of a disposal plan, is but one of the many ways in which engineers serve humanity. One of those best qualified to speak on the importance of engineers to the functioning of New York City is Mr. John Riddell, with a record of 51 years of city service. John, tell us what the city would be up against if there were no engineers assisting in its far-flung activities. Well, Al, if civilization were to exist at all, it would require the work of the engineer. In fact, civilization, as we find it throughout the world today, is the product of the skill of the engineer. In order to have civilized communities of any size at all, the first requirement is that there shall be an adequate water supply. In the case of New York City, it obtains most of its water from the Catskill Mountains and from the Delaware watershed. Some, of course, is obtained from the Croton watershed and a small amount from the sands of Long Island. Now, when this water has been put through the human economy and through the trade uses, something must be done with it to prevent pollution. And therefore, as was stated earlier in this program, sewage disposal works are required and are now performing a most important office in maintaining the waters of the harbor of New York in an acceptable condition. and then again, when rain descends, falls upon the streets of New York, if opportunities were not taken and measures provided for carrying this water off to the tidal estuaries, floods would occur and therefore, and therefore, we must have sewers. And some of these sewers are so large that one can run a railroad train in them. Now, in addition to these necessary facilities, we must have under the present state of civilization the utilities such as the electric light, electric power, gas, telephones, and then fire alarms, the engineer is primarily engaged in the construction of hospitals and public buildings and the bridges across navigable streams and across some of our highways and the tunnels under our river. In addition to all of these activities of the engineer, he fulfills a most important purpose in the economy of the city itself. He is required to look at the various projects which come before our authorizing body and observe whether they are well placed and whether the economies in the case will be met by their construction. Thank you, John. Mr. Darcy, can you tell us something about the functioning of engineers in the state service? First, I'm very happy of the opportunity to serve on a panel for an engineering discussion with that grand old veteran of public works engineering, Mr. John Redal. the state of New York, through the Department of Public Works, headed by Superintendent Tallamy, is responsible for the construction and maintenance of our highway system, the construction of state buildings, hospitals, schools, the operation of the state canals, and other allied works. I'm sure that without highways, parkways, expressways, on which our whole mode of living depends, civilization as we know it in this metropolitan community would be set back at least 50 years. most of you are familiar with the present parkway and so far limited expressway system and appreciate the benefits and realize what chaos we would have even as today if it were not for these traffic arteries. the state is now entering upon the construction of a modern thruway 450 miles across the state of New York. To do this work it is important that we have competently educated and trained engineers. There was or there never has been in my opinion a time in the past 40 years I have been public instruction when the opportunity for young well-educated trained engineers has been as propitious as it is today. I will dedicate my section of this program to the plea for the engineers to consider carefully perfection of themselves in college and the following of the highway expressway construction program. Thank you. Now Mr. Gill, just how does the engineer fit into the general industrial and public utility picture? Mr. Commissioner, I think one of the principal jobs of the engineer is a substitution of power-driven equipment for human labor. That's the thing that's made possible, the increase in the standards of living. Now the use of electricity is a pretty good indication of the industrialization and mechanization. The United States is by far the head of any of the countries in that, and even though it has about 7% of the population, about 50% of the electricity generated in the country is in United States, which is largely supplied by public utilities. Now even though this power were not increasing rapidly, say it's doubling about once in 10 years, the utilities would require engineers to analyze their many problems that arise in operation. And in view of the fact that they're growing, the engineers must plan ahead, must make their designs and specifications, and compare the equipment offered by the various manufacturers to be sure that they're getting the right equipment at the lowest cost. And all this equipment which they buy has to be engineered by the factories themselves. If in fact the engineer is becoming so important in industry that in many of our largest industries the engineer is in top management, sometimes the president or the chairman of the board of some of our largest industrial corporations. The engineer has one other function under present conditions, and Mr. Darcy, what is the role of the engineer in civil defense? As an official connected with state civil defense commission, I must say that basic engineering knowledge is essential not only to America's defense production and military might, but also to the organization of civil defense. You well know, commissioner, engineer, that engineers under you and the public works division of civil defense in New York City are performing indispensable services. Civil defense would be well nigh impossible without. Mr. Riddell, I see you would like to say something. The present development of civil defense in the city of New York is based very largely upon the experience which was acquired during the war years from 1941 to 1945. During that period, there was established a department of civil defense of public works, which was then headed by the commissioner of public works. public works. This developed into an arrangement whereby contractors within short distances of the city of New York were made their equipment available in case of an attack. And the engineers of all the city departments and of the utilities were arranged in groups so that they would respond upon the proper alert. The present arrangement is based upon that and I believe will be most effective in meeting the conditions which might be created were an attack come from some hostile source. All four of us are engineers and may be accused of being a bit on the enthusiastic side of our profession. But, Mr. Gilt, do you think our country could do without engineers? Mr. Commissioner, as John just said a few minutes or so ago, civilization as we know it is a product of engineering. Sometimes superficially we might think, well, if we had no engineers we could go on as we are, we wouldn't have any progress. But as a matter of fact, if we didn't have engineers we couldn't go on as we are. We wouldn't have them in to operate the equipment. We couldn't replace what we have got. And as a result, civilization would gradually deteriorate to practically barbarism. Thank you, Mr. Gilt, Mr. Dorsey, Mr. Riddell. I'm sure that our audience appreciates the role of the professional engineer and how he affects their daily life. Thank you, gentlemen. This program was presented under the auspices of the Honorable Frederick H. Zermulin, Commissioner of the City's Department of Public Works in honor of Engineers Week, which concludes today and which was inaugurated by the National Society of Professional Engineers and observed throughout the country this week. visiting the Also, bitten to meet people like stole July and watch across the half terrific next time. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END