Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our regular Tuesday evening program, our common maladjustments, and the subject of discussion this evening is over-dependence, and our speaker is Dr. Lawrence F. Schaffer. May I interrupt this introduction now to also invite you to attend the meeting tomorrow night here in the Great Hall of the Cooper Union when Pearl Buck, Dr. Chang Wing C., and Dr. Subhas K. Dar speak here in a symposium, or on and with a symposium, in which the discussion will be the Asians look at us. I think that it should be an interesting and unusual type of evening for us here in the Great Hall. Then continuing with our program this evening, I would like very much to tell you that Dr. Lawrence F. Schaffer is a clinical psychologist, professor of education, head of the Department of Guidance, Columbia College, Teachers College, author of numerous books and articles. I would just like to mention one or two of them. He contributed to fields of psychology. He wrote the child psychology and the psychology of adjustment, and there are numerous other articles and books that this gentleman has contributed to the field of psychology. I should also say that the doctor was not idle during the war when he served in the Air Corps, in the psychological branch of the Air Corps, incidentally, and way outranked me by several degrees. Colonel, he was Colonel, and that was way above your chairman's rank, and therefore is very impressed by the fact that we have a Colonel speaking for us this evening. And one other item, ladies and gentlemen, you remember we had a storm the other day, and Dr. Schaffer has a home across the river in Jersey. That's a long way from here, of course, but this section of Jersey has been without lights and heat ever since the storm struck, so that Dr. Schaffer is here with considerable problem at home of no light and no heat. So he comes to us then from Columbia University speaking on the problems of over-dependence. Dr. Schaffer. Professor Fairchild, the warmth of your introduction quite makes up for the malfunctioning of my oil burner at home. There was some mention of light as well as heat. I think these splendid Cooper Union forums are giving their little bit of light in New York, and I imagine a little heat once in a while, too. Individual freedom is one of the highest values of our culture. Those of us that have experienced the last 20 years or so have seen the issue of individual freedom always at the forefront. There have been social, political developments, military operations to preserve or enlarge that freedom. Now, ordinarily, we think of our individual freedom, this precious possession, as threatened mostly from the outside. We think of it as threatened by other persons, by national groups, political movements. And yet, there's another, perhaps even more dangerous way in which we may lose our freedom. Perhaps the most frequent cause of a person losing his freedom lies in the person himself. Now, let's get down to concrete cases. These instances are not lurid, they are not spectacularly abnormal, but alas, they're pretty common among us. This is pretty typical of a kind of problem that comes to a college counselor. Here's a young man who's a sophomore at a large state university. He does have a physical handicap. One foot is slightly deformed. This, however, is not serious, doesn't help him from getting around. He has a greater handicap, though, in that he never makes up his own mind about anything. His schedule is arranged so that he gets home every weekend for a long weekend. He has no classes between Friday noon and Monday noon. While he's at the university, he lives with elderly relatives. He has no student friends, partly because of his going-away weekends when most of the social activities are underway, partly because his foot keeps him from participating fully in some kinds of activities, but mostly because he is abjectly dependent on his mother. During a semester when a counselor was working with this young man, several problems came up for decision. For example, it was suggested that he ought to have a physical examination, a rather routine kind of thing. Most students would have said, yes, I've gone and done it. He had to wait until he went home over a weekend to consult his mother. The student advisor took up with him the dropping of a course, and here again, he couldn't make his own decision. When it came to schedule his subjects at the beginning of a new semester, he had remarkably few ideas. He went home to ask mother what courses he should take. Now, the termination of this sad little story was rather abrupt. It was discovered that he had never been vaccinated. It happened that this particular university had a universal rule that all the students had to be vaccinated. So it was taken up with him, and again, he had to wait until he went home over the weekend and talk it over with his mother. Well, it turned out that his mother was a constitutional objector to vaccination. One of those persons that believed utterly against that practice. She just wouldn't permit him to be vaccinated. And although he was a young man of 19 or 20 years old, he was of pretty good intelligence according to the tests that had been given him when he entered the university, he wouldn't make his own decision. As a result, he not only dropped out, but his mother was so embittered at the manifest unfairness of colleges in general that she never let him go back to college, and the counselor lost track of him. That was the end of that fellow. Now, we want to ask, where was his freedom? The individual freedom that represents a social ideal was not hampered in his case by anything that happened from the outside. It was hampered by something in him. Now, this college sophomore, of course, showed over-dependent behavior, which is all too frequent a pattern. There have been a number of studies of dependent behavior of people of various ages. Some examples, these were taken from what is the classical study in this field, David Levy's maternal over-protection. Here's one that's on the way. Here's a seven-year-old boy. His mother still feeds him with a spoon. She dresses him. He was kept on a nursing bottle till age three and a half, though that's over now. The mother takes him to school. Since he was born, they haven't ever been apart. The mother hasn't ever gone out in the evening with her husband. The boy was more important, and, of course, she had to stay home with him all the while. Here's a 12-year-old youngster. He has slept with his mother ever since infancy. He still does. The mother restudies all of his school lessons with him. As a matter of fact, he's getting along quite well in school. There's no academic handicap because he's diligent, docile, submissive. he's entirely accustomed to doing everything that he's told to do. Now, the mother, of course, recognizes that boy, 12, has to have friends of his own age. So she has picked one out for him, a particularly well-selected boy, friend, of about his own age. He is permitted to visit this other boy once every two weeks, and the mother goes along and stays while the two children play together. And we see this not only in youth. Here's an anecdote. I picked up the substance of it just from Common Newspaper Report. No real clinical study. A woman well along in her 80s died. She had lived with her two sons who were now in their late 50s. The mother had made all the decisions. She handled the money. The boys had, in their younger days, in their 20s, tried to hold jobs, but the jobs were unpleasant. People weren't nice to them. Mother was so much nicer. So they just came home and lived with mother. And now that mothers died, these men in their 50s are just as lost as a little child without someone to lead them. them. Now, psychological studies show that this over-dependent pattern of life is, of course, a learned one. There is no particular constitution or inheritance or biological deficiency that make people dependent. They learn to be dependent. This learning process begins early in life. It stems from the parent-child relationship. In our culture, it is, of course, usually, though not always, the mother-child relationship. Because in our culture, the mother is the one that's in the home all the while. And the bringing up of children is allotted to her care. She has more contact with them, more responsibility for them. It was interesting to note that in one of the anthropological studies of the past decade, a culture was found in which the women went out and did the work in the fields, and the men stayed home all the while. And there, in that culture, it was the men that spoiled the children. I don't think, therefore, that there is anything constitutional about the sex of the mother that makes her the chief causative factor. It's just the way that our culture patterns. Now, if the over-dependence stopped with the parent-child relationship, it perhaps would not be so sweepingly important in life. In many instances, it would be painfully outgrown, or rather, new relationships with people would be learned once the youngster got out of the childhood years and once actually got away from home. But there's a difficulty in that. The technique generalizes. The victim, the youngster, grows up with a deep lack of self-confidence and also with a lack of the social skills that he needs for learning how to get along with people. And so, given enough of this unfortunate learning, he becomes a mama's boy throughout life, or else he transfers this role to somebody else on whom he can depend. He depends on a teacher or an employer, or, and this is a very long story that perhaps has been touched upon in some of your other lectures in this series that have taken up marital problems, this attitude gets transferred to the spouse, to the husband or wife concerned, so that the wife, let us say, has two little boys, her husband and the one that she bore. Now, a very crucial problem in here is the question of why would a mother handicap a child in this way? popular opinion sees her as selfish and stupid. She's selfish because very often in popular explanations of this problem, people will say she wants to swell up her own importance. She wants to show how she has all of the good answers, how the child has to depend on her alone. popular opinion sees her as stupid because she doesn't recognize that the thing that seems good to her in safeguarding the welfare of a little child by leading him around by the hand all the while is going to be really deeply harmful to him in the end in some cases. Well, that's how popular opinion sees it. How does the mother see it? She doesn't see it that way at all. In the first place, she is likely to see herself as having very high standards. She wants the best for her children and the best from them and of them. And also, she sees herself as self-sacrificing, as devoting a great deal of time and effort and work to her children. In fact, she feels quite sorry for herself because of the time she has to spend there. Also, she sees herself protecting them against the world, against other people that would exploit them. Now, the psychologist who has studied problems of this sort, however, doesn't see this mother in the same way that the public sees the mother as stupid or selfish, and neither can the psychologist entirely see the mother in her role of being self-sacrificing and having high standards. The psychologist sees none of these, but sees the mother as full of anxiety. The dominating or protecting mother is herself insecure and anxious. things. A pretty broad generalization that holds up very well in many instances is that only anxious people do foolish things like that. Just to give one illustration from another psychological area, not particularly having to do with over-dependence, I am sure you are aware of phobias, of irrational fears that are a fairly common difficulty among people. Here is an individual who just can't go out of the house. He is afraid to step out on the street. Here is a young woman that is afraid of darkness and having a vague fear that if she gets near an open window in the dark, something horrible is going to grab her and so on. Now, these are foolish fears. They have no good foundation in reality, but they are fears of an anxious and insecure person who has to find some excuse, some explanation to himself as to why he feels so anxious. Now, the situation of the mother is somewhat analogous. The anxious mother has to do something about her anxiousness, and, consequently, having a child, the child being a pliable vehicle for what she needs, she has to do something for the child to reduce her own anxiety. Now, two of the rather common foci of the mother's anxiety are anxiety about herself, about her own status, and anxiety about the child. Now, in a good many instances, these two are mixed. It is awfully hard to find clear-cut. It is either this or that classifications when you're dealing with human beings. Human beings are pretty complicated, complicated. And I always hesitate to say that it is either exactly this or that. One of the few things in which that does hold true is if a person's right leg is longer than the left one is shorter, but there are otherwise very few dichotomies of this kind. However, it helps us to understand particular cases to pretend just for a little while that we have two types here, and then afterward agree that these may be blended in particular instances. So let us think first about the problem of the self-anxiety of the mother. The mother's own anxiety and insecurity about herself comes from her own past experiences. It is a learned insecurity. It comes perhaps in many cases from her parent-child relationships in her childhood. Perhaps she was criticized and dominated and made insecure with a resulting need to always be right, to always show people how right she is and how good she is and how good everything is that she touches. Sometimes, of course, this insecurity may have somewhat later origin, though not untouched by the earlier causes. It may be a social insecurity. Perhaps her marriage has not been entirely to her liking. Perhaps the economic situation, perhaps she and her husband don't have as much money or don't live in as good a house or in as good a neighborhood as she anticipated. Or sometimes, and here's very often where the men come in, the fathers, the vocational disappointment of the individual, who, starting with high aims and with an intention of advancing to positions of greater responsibility, finds himself stuck in a rut. He is lacking in the advancement that he dreamed about. And so, what does he do? He has to take that out through his son. So, we find that these self-anxieties of people originate from a lot of different causes, from their own childhood experiences, from social insecurities of the present, including these vocational disappointments with plans for the compensatory achievement on the part of the child. Now, if the mother's anxiety is about the child, that ordinarily originates from some characteristics of the child, or of the history leading up to the child. I am struck in having gone over again just in the last few days when I was putting things together to come and talk with you, Levy's cases of his research, in how many instances there had been a rather disastrous preceding history about childbearing among the mothers of extremely overprotected children. There were instances in which a child had been long anticipated, in which the mother had been trying to have a child for some years without success and finally did have one. There were instances in which the previous children had been stillborn or had died in infancy or had been miscarried. children. After a long waiting period, this child comes along. You can see what an anxious attitude the mother would have toward it. This may be the only child she's ever going to have and of course she's going to do everything for it. Then I am struck by the frequency of real handicaps among the children, although these might have been minor ones if they had been handled a little differently by the family. This child is lame. That one has had a long series of illnesses causing confinement in bed. This one had serious feeding problems and was allergic to most of the things in the first year that it was fed. These children's handicaps then sensitize the mother to be anxious about the child as a fragile person that has to be protected and looked out for. And then there's still another pattern that occurs in a number of instances, though usually you have to go quite deeply into the study of an individual case in order to find it. And therefore, well, I almost hesitate to mention it because one can jump at the conclusion, as I think that some have without justification, that this is a common pattern or that it is always the case. This child, that particularly if the child is a little handicapped in some way, represents quite a threat to the mother's way of life. She has to stay in so much more. she has to exert herself so much more. Perhaps she gives up a position which was bringing in needed income. And this leads in some instances, though I think not extremely often, to a feeling of strong rejection against the child. Now, sometimes, and I note the topic preceding this several periods ago in the lecture on the feeling of rejection, this results in overt rejection, in the mother being neglectful or cruel to the child directly. In some other instances, it may have that feeling of rejection, may have just the opposite overt effect. The mother has a horror of her own hostility. She almost fears herself that she might harm the child in some way. and so she tries to make up for it. It is the old phenomenon of protesting too much, of bending over backward as a way of defeating what one is most anxious about. And so we do find, in some cases, that the mother's anxiety about the child is combined and blended with the mother's anxiety about herself. And that this takes the form of a fear of her own hostility toward the child. Now, continuing in the fiction that we are dealing here with two independent kinds of cases, though again mentioning that they are often combined or mixed, we might point out that there are some rather different results that may occur from the pattern of self-anxiety and from the pattern of anxiety about the child. self-anxiety of the mother most frequently appears in a pattern we might call dominance. This is the pattern of doing everything for the child because he doesn't do it quite well enough. We might picture the little child who is just beginning to learn to eat by himself and his spoon is clumsy. Perhaps he gets his scrambled eggs in his ear instead of his mouth. The mother is immediately horrified that her child should be such an ignoramus, such a clumsy, good-for-nothing thing. Well, in order to not have to bear the affront of his inferiority and clumsiness, she has to do it herself because she just cannot bear the thought that her child doesn't do something right. If the child is slow, and what child isn't slow? I don't mean intellectually slow, I mean just plain, ordinary slow. You call twice, I have one at home myself, and he comes sort of sometime. Now, different mothers may perceive, and fathers, that experience differently. Some may react to that slowness as, well, that's the way children are, and accept it. Others may regard it as a serious affront to their own self-esteem. That my child should be like that arouses anxiety, which is reduced by scolding and nagging the child, by punishing him, by making him toe the mark. This dominant pattern, then, which does things for the child and makes him do them dominantly has this source of the anxiety of the child's misbehavior being an affront to the mother. Now, if, on the other hand, the mother's anxiety is centered about the child, the pattern might be called overprotection. It is most seen in such behavior as excessive contact, as Levy called it. The mother always has to be with the child. Well, now, you can just picture that mother. Let's just get a little inside of her feelings, not inside of her rationalizations and excuses, but inside of her real feelings. If the child is out of her sight, she is alarmed, she is anxious, she is concerned. What if something should happen to him? What if he'd fall down and get hurt? The result is she always has to be there to keep an eye on him. Consequently, she finds that her anxiety is reduced by constantly being with him, and the parental control, the excessive contact, is built up. Now, there is a real attitude difference between what I have called dominance and what I have called overprotection. the sag of which is a Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The latter, the overprotective mother, the mother genuinely anxious about the child, her attitude might be summed up by, my poor baby, how helpless he is. Whereas the dominant parent's attitude might be summed up by, how can you be so dumb? Why don't you get things done faster? Why don't you get dressed when I tell you to? And that kind of attitude. Now, of course, the effect on children so reared varies from one child to another. Even in spite of the all-pervasiveness of the parent-child relationship, it is not the whole story. Many readjust. One of the most heartening aspects of human nature that one sees again and again is how relatively tough people are. It is possible to take personal histories of quite well-adjusted people and you find that they have undergone experiences that, according to some interpretations, should have made them full of anxiety and badly off. But fortunately, people do have potentialities for, by themselves, not necessarily with help, painfully relearning the unfortunate learnings of childhood, learning how to get along with people, learning to make their own decisions instead of constantly depending on others. And so some work it out, usually with a rather painful period in adolescence. And then there are others that show varying degrees of permanent dependence. And then there are still others that were dependent early in life. And later, this dependence turns to hostility and rebellion. They see how the mama's boy doesn't get along with the other fellows. They come to have a sensitiveness about it. And so they come to blame the mother. And perhaps when they're old enough to have a job of their own to escape and get away, we find them rebelling. Now, these last two solutions of having continued dependence or getting away from the dependence but with a probably unfortunate hostility and rebellion while doing it, these two solutions may sometimes appear in different children of the same family. In one instance, for example, an extremely dominant mother who had severe social disappointments. She, for some reason or another, her own childhood was not investigatable. She was of a past generation. But it was quite evident that she had set her sights high, that she expected to marry particularly well and live in one of the best houses on one of the best streets in a small town where this snobbishness meant a great deal. And so she married the son of a quite well-to-do owner of a store. And only a short time after that, the store failed. And the young man, who had no other skill, went to being a rather menial clerk in somebody else's store where he stayed the rest of his life. And the mother was very much embittered. Now, she had two children. The daughter remained at home all her life. The daughter remained utterly dominated, cringing, constantly needing assurance, constantly feeling that people were mean to her, that people didn't do things for her that they should. The son up and left. And in a sense, that sounds like a good solution. As soon as he could get out of school and learn himself a trade, he went far away and never came back. But follow-up studies indicate a suspicious, hostile person. An individual who, feeling that he hadn't been treated rightly by his mother, from whom he had the greatest expectation of good treatment, how could anybody else ever treat him well? And so we find him constantly suspicious of the people with whom he deals and of his associates. Now, if the result is over-dependence, we are not primarily here taking up those who readjust or who rebel. The over-dependent person reared in a dominant or overprotective atmosphere lacks practice in meeting obstacles. He lacks practice in making his own decisions. He also does not have an opportunity to learn the special skills that are needed, to get along with other people. Perhaps that's a rather more superficial way of observing what his trouble is. A little deeper, and underneath that lack of ability to get along or practice in meeting obstacles, is his lack of self-confidence, his anxiety about himself. The constant feeling that since nothing he ever did was quite right or quite good enough, that nothing that he ever will do will be quite right or quite good enough. Now, the dominated child has that kind of difficulty right from the start. He is likely to encounter it when he goes to school, being accustomed to either having everything done for him or else having been corrected and scolded promptly when he did something wrong. He's afraid to open his mouth for fear that something wrong might come out. The overprotected child may have relatively little difficulty when young. The one who has everything done for him with anxiety centered on him rather than on the mother's own anxiety, may get along quite well, may appear to be a very happy, peaceful, loving kind of a child during the early years of life. But he has no resources for later social adjustment. When other children and teachers and employers will not show him the same loving protection that he had come to expect from his mother, he may return to mother or to mother substitutes or may just become an anxious, insecure, persecuted feeling individual the rest of his life. Now, what can be done about it? How can we preserve our freedom from this inner kind of assault? If mothers who do this were stupid, selfish persons, perhaps they could be changed by lecturing to them, by punishing them, by pointing out their errors and so on. And in fact, I'm afraid that that's the way that husbands and in-laws and others who observe this overprotection situation developing tend to do. But our further analysis of what's really the matter with mother in this kind of situation shows that that is the last thing that's likely to help. We have to recognize that the dominant or overprotective mother is not the selfish or stupid mother, but the anxious mother. That's the key to trying to help. Now, in the first place, a good many people can help themselves. Just as I have said, children are surprisingly tough. Thank heavens they are. As I was speaking with Professor Fairchild outside before, I said, the critical problem in the field of theoretical abnormal psychology is not explaining how people get mentally disordered. It's explaining why everybody doesn't get mentally disordered. And, in fact, we know all too little about the strengths, the inner resources, the things that enable people to be able to straighten themselves out. Now, many mothers who are not too badly off can ask themselves the question, why do I want this child to be so perfect? Why can't I let him be the little somewhat dirty, certainly not neat, wild Indian that other mothers' children often are? Why am I so concerned about the dangers that he might face? Why am I so anxious? I think that quite a lot of people, by giving thought, if their difficulties are not too pronounced, can help themselves in that way. And then others can help. Other members of the family that see this problem developing, that see a mother becoming dominating or overprotective, can help by not seeing that mother as just bad or wrong or selfish or stupid, but by seeing her as anxious either about herself or about the child. That to help her establish her own self-esteem, not, incidentally, by simply backing her up at all costs and approving what she's done to the child. Of course we don't mean that. But by giving her other opportunities to experience worth, to experience praise. If I may throw a brick bat at the fathers in this respect, no wonder mothers so often feel insecure and anxious and helpless when all of their other efforts, their efforts at keeping a home and getting meals and so on, are so often unappreciated, when they have no adequate basis for their self-esteem as feeling that they are carrying out a useful role in the world without dominating their children in order to do so. And then, there is professional help. But, as you know, unfortunately, not as available as it should be, somewhat costly, but it does exist. The important first step, and here, clinic after clinic, that has dealt with problems of over-dependent, over-protected, dominated children, has recognized that the first problem is to get the mother to realize that she is the one that needs the help. It is her anxieties that need the careful professional consideration of the psychiatrist, psychologist, social worker, or other professional person. Now, our consideration of parental dominance and parental over-protection may cause some conflict in the minds of some of you who are quite well-read with respect to modern developments in the field of child psychology. I am sure that you have read articles and books, and so on, particularly in the last five years or so, that children ought to be loved and hugged and kissed and made much of. Haven't we been contradicting that here this evening? The answer is no, we haven't been. And I just have to take us into a little historical expedition in order to try to clarify that point. The problem of maternal dominance and over-protection is one that has been recognized for quite a number of years. Back in the 1920s, the difficulties were discovered. That here are mothers who, because of their own needs, needs that we can understand and sympathize with, but still with untoward results, have been dominating and over-protecting their children. Now, in somewhat more recent years, just within the last ten years or so, it has been, there has been stress on the need for more protective support and love for the young infant to give him the security that he needs. Now, which advice should you follow? The popular tendency, of course, is to follow the latest advice. There is no science so discarded as last year's science. This year's science is always much better. But, if we consider it historically, Watson, back in the 1920s, that horrible person, John B. Watson, you know, saw the dominating, over-protecting parent doing damage to the older child, and he was right that far. And then he made a bad mistake, a mistake which I think has harmed American childhood. Without adequate evidence, he extended his conclusions which were on a pretty firm foundation for older children down to infancy, and wrote those articles and books that were so influential about never hug and kiss the baby and things of that sort. That was not justified by the evidence that he had. Now, the new danger is the opposite one, that the new evidence about the needs for attention and affection and security and contact of little infants should, without good evidence, be extended upward into the later years of childhood. Again, there is no evidence for that. The recommendations of recent psychological writing, of warm mothering for infants, and the recommendations against the dominating or over-protecting of children are not opposed. Both can be followed. In fact, both can be included in a wider and more useful concept, the concept of accepting the child's needs and behavior as he is. In early life, the infant has a great need, I mean in the first year or so, for mothering and care and contact. And cuddling and rocking and things of that sort. This may be taken care of by recognizing the infant's helplessness and his essential need for security and responding to it. We accept the little baby as he is, including what he needs. Now, as the child grows, the wise parent still accepts him as he is, accepts his need for independence, his need to try new situations, his need to live a little dangerously, his need to do as other children do. Now, this makes a rather hard role for the mother. It's so much easier to have one rule and follow it than it is to have a rule that has to be changed every year or even oftener than that in order to adapt to the changing needs and characteristics of the child. But only that greater wisdom of changing as the child changes, of not understanding that there's one rule that you have to mother and overprotect the child that goes throughout life, or, on the other hand, equally bad or perhaps even worse, the one rule that you have to train the child to face reality and learn about life so you start by letting him cry it out and not giving him his bottle until the clock says it's time to. Both of those, I believe, are wrong practices. And so the mother has the tough job of learning to accept the infant's needs as they are, to accept the child's needs as they are, and finally to accept the youth's need to grow up, to love, to leave home, to work, to become, in a full sense, an adult. Now the individual that is accepted for his own worth, both as an infant and as a child and as a youth, will have this cause, anyway, taken care of with respect to his anxiety or insecurity or dependence. He will experience an inner freedom, a freedom from over-dependence, a freedom from fear of himself that will enable him to face more courageously the external fears that beset our freedom. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll have our question period now, ladies and gentlemen. We have either direct questions. We have a microphone down here. And I also have paper and a pencil if anybody would like to write the questions. They're going to be the fifth cell. I left a finger. I am a consecrated person and I got an office door. The fifth cell is found on the front. I am a bad man. Somebody say I was surprised by police. The fifth cell is discovered and then the fifth cell is in the các demais. They do所以呢. All right, Doctor, thank you very much for the talk again. And we have quite a few questions here, some of which you have seen. We're going to try to cover as many as we can. Ladies and gentlemen, here we go. Dr. Schaffer, don't you think that the solution to over-dependence would be to teach psychology of child life from elementary school on so that the parents will not be too ignorant and that they will do a much better job on their children because of this training provided in the public schools? Yes, it's according, of course, to how we understand the phrase teach psychology, not the way you teach it in a professional school to psychologists. I might say that a great deal is being done in the schools. I'm sorry, I don't know about the New York schools in particular, but in a great many school systems. in teaching what has come to be called education for family life or education for living or programs in personal guidance. Now, I don't think they will solve all of the problems, but they are one constructive step. One key of how to do that is to have free discussion in democratic small groups with an able leader. And it is surprising how, say, junior high school youngsters can talk about the family life problems that they see around them, and I do think that helps repeating those problems on generation after generation. Thank you, sir. This question is labeled a $64 question. I'm not making it up. I'm sometimes accused, doctor, of making up things. No, it's labeled a $64 question. And in total, is it not inherent in our profession, such as doctors, lawyers, psychologists, at ETC, I guess that includes a lot of us in the ETC, to show and conduct the less fortunate people how to live, that we eventually remove ourselves from the stage of assistance. Why is it that we never seem to approach that goal, doctor? It would be too bad for all the lawyers if nobody had any lawsuits or anything. Too bad for all the doctors if everybody stayed well. But quite seriously, I'm sure that most people in those professions would be very glad to get themselves out of business. I think that our analogy to the problem of physical health is a valuable one there. There are some things that doctors were awfully busy with a generation ago, smallpox, for example, that they practically wiped out. The doctor rarely has to treat a case of smallpox anymore. Now, what happens? People live longer, and they develop a new set of diseases instead that aren't the diseases that they used to have to treat in younger people. I think that the net result is, of course, a great gain. I'm sorry to say that the science of preventative mental health is decidedly in its infancy. It's not possible to compare it exactly to say, well, it's where medicine was 50 years ago or something like that. It isn't that easy. But I can say what we need is research and finding out ways. We are not ready for wide, sweeping applications of many principles of mental health yet today. Doctor, would you please elaborate on how a person can help himself to get over the patterns of dependency or parental substitutes? I wouldn't say that everybody, without exception, could help himself completely. I could say, in one sense, all help is self-help. Nobody ever gets well from any personal difficulty unless he does it himself. What the professional people in this field do, the psychiatrists, psychologists, and so on, is to help you, not do it to you or for you. In that way, it does differ from some aspects of physical medicine. Now, in many cases, having some understanding that, well, this applies to me. I've had that happen with my students that have taken a rather long course in this general area, in which somebody has come up after class and said, I've known that that was my trouble for a long time, but I suppose I was the only one. I didn't know anybody else had that trouble. And knowing that others had it, for example, a fear of the dark or something of that kind, helps. And insights do come. I would say that the less severe, I don't know, quarter, half, third, some rough fraction of difficulties, can be helped by a certain amount of understanding that can come from reading and talking with people who have knowledge. The rest cannot. It requires a more individual relationship, where you sit down and talk with one person, instead of just read or hear in a group. I wouldn't say that all difficulties could be helped by oneself. Thank you, Doctor. Is there a method of control or cure for anxiety or fear? Now, we have a meeting coming up on fear, but there's no reason why you couldn't talk on it a little bit. Yes, a lot of different ways. But again, the term anxiety or fear is very general. And what will be the cure or problem or helping factor with one person is not exactly what it would be with another person. I hope I don't—I'm not going to try to hedge in answering these questions unless it's quite necessary, but there are no sweeping prescriptions. Just as there is no medicine that will cure all ills, in spite of our attempt to, say, make aspirin do that, there is no mental medicine that will cure all ills. And all sorts of difficulties have anxiety or fear at their base. And they aren't all alike, and they come from many different sources. Doctor, but television will make you socially secure, sir. I didn't. You can't quote me on that. Oh, dear. Dr. Schaffer, what factors create the insecurity which result in a dominating individual? Now, you did mention some of those. Maybe you could go over a few again. I think all sorts of factors that lead to the individual feel— make the individual feel that he himself or his or that her or her possessions and things in family are under attack or criticism. Probably the most common factor in resulting in a dominating mother that must have her children exactly toe the mark is that she was made insecure about herself through a number of different things, but most frequently in her parent-child relationships. And that raises a question which I know is coming here in which it says, doesn't heredity have something to do with this? Well, I don't know all the answers, but to the best of my knowledge, biological heredity, the kind of thing that comes down through the germ cells, doesn't have a thing to do with it. And yet you do find dominance and fearfulness and dependence running in families because like begets like by learning processes. The insecure mother brings—has insecure children who in turn have more insecure children, and that it is that factor of feeling oneself attacked and criticized. A very nice simple example of it is why are some parents so concerned about their child's table manners? Because the child's table manners reflect on them, reflect on their social position. That why—I wouldn't have people say that I didn't bring up my children better than that, that kind of an attitude. It is that fear of threat to oneself which underlies most dominance, I think. All right, Doctor, we have a large number of questions here about the problem of what can a mother do about changing or bringing up the insecure child. I'll just read one of them. You can probably go on on this topic. There's quite a few questions on it. For example, Doctor, suppose a mother of a five-year-old girl recognizes that she's brought up an over-dependent and over-protected child. She's fear-ridden—the child is—fear-ridden, anxious child. What can this mother do now that she does recognize this problem? What can she do to correct the situation? The mother's tried for months to get this particular case. This child is staying on its own two feet, and yet the child doesn't seem to want to do it. There's just a rebellion going on between the mother and the child in this battle. It's this whole problem. And, Doctor, there must be three, four questions on this. How can I teach a child to be independent? Shouldn't we wait till it shows signs of wanting to dress or fend for itself, etc.? So if you could talk on that a little bit, I think it would help. That's a tough problem. It's essentially, of course, a problem of first aid work, of doing something helpful when things have already gone wrong. In the first place, that is the kind of situation in which professional help is most useful. where the kinds of situations that are difficult to have professional help intervene in are the situations in which the mother doesn't think anything is wrong, or in which she accuses other people of being to blame for anything. It is the mother who has a child, and they've come to an impasse, and the mother says, I need help, what shall I do? Who can profit most from going to some kind of guidance center, to a specialist in problems of child behavior, and get some help. of whom would need to save the anti-ali祭乏, etc. either as YOU are as a female, or as if you have a child, or are some also material or annoying, and in terms of doing that, generally you can always get through it in your life. I feel like we have it in the middle class of sliding of people בא� primary Sandra who can comment about um in the top, which i proverbially Nah shallort is on the bottom節 as well as theui-one is on the top three mantens, as well as the docutes might think of an allergy, as well as you are responsible for ending the darum of the spring of the pilliness of the pilliness.