By Transcription. In the public service, your city station, in cooperation with the Department of Health of New York City, presents another in its regular series of discussions on the health matters which concern us all. These talks are presented each Tuesday and Thursday morning at this time. Date your doctor while you're well. Take advantage of medical science to help live your life more fully. Dr. Michael Antell, District Health Officer with your city health department, is here with us this morning to explain how each of us can profit by a periodic health examination. Good morning, Dr. Antell. Good morning, Mr. Waltman. What would you say are the main reasons we should see our doctor at regular intervals? I would say there are two main reasons. The first, to help prevent disease. The periodic medical examination gives us an opportunity to find hidden defects that may lead to sickness. Often these can be eliminated and illness thus avoided. The second reason for a health examination, and it is a very important one, is that it gives us a chance to improve our health so that we can live a happier, more rewarding life. Good health is a priceless possession that too many of us take for granted until we've lost it. I suppose it's especially important for folks over 40 to be regularly examined. When's the best time to begin these periodic examinations, doctor? The time to start your periodic health examination is right now, no matter what age you are. And you should return for the next checkup at the time your physician advises. These periodic health examinations should begin in infancy and continue throughout life. The baby who is under medical supervision is generally examined each month for his first year. The baby grows so rapidly during this period that his progress needs frequent checking. And it is during this first year that shots are given against whooping cough, diphtheria, and smallpox. Then after the baby passes his first birthday, examinations are not so frequent. That's right. Well, how do these periodic health examinations keep us in good health? During childhood, serious diseases are usually prevented or made milder by immunizations given during the periodic health visits. Physical defects are more easily corrected when people are young. Malformation of bones, for example, often can be corrected in childhood. Crooked teeth can be straightened more easily when the work is begun in childhood rather than attempted later in his life. Crossed eyes are most successfully corrected, too, when the child is still quite young. So you see, these early examinations have a definite advantage, and this advantage is maintained throughout life by continued health examinations. Are the benefits of such examinations as great once we are past childhood? We now believe that they are. They make it possible for the doctor to discover disease before there are any outward signs. For example, tuberculosis can be found by x-ray in its very early stages when it is most easily cured and before the patient feels ill. Or an examination of the blood may reveal the presence of too much sugar, meaning that the patient must take steps to avoid developing diabetes. At this stage, a change in diet may be all that is necessary to remove the danger of the disease. Or if diabetes is already present, proper treatment can be started. A small tumor may be found which can be removed before it becomes large enough to interfere with the body's functioning. Have you many other examples of the importance of periodic health examinations? I do indeed. I could go on and on. What are you particularly interested in, Mr. Waldman? Well, the fate of the cancer patient is always of special interest. Yes, it is. If cancer is found in its early stages, there is a good chance of cure. Looking for factors which may point to cancer is one of the physician's major concerns in a periodic examination of a patient, especially a patient who has entered the middle age group. I have a friend who is an excellent example of this. About 10 years ago, during her periodic health examination, a small growth was found. It was removed surgically, and laboratory examinations showed that it was cancer. This friend is a physician, now past 70 years of age, who has since retired from active practice, but is today busily engaged in lecturing. Well, that's a heartening example of a cancer cure. I understand venereal diseases also respond to treatment better if treatment has begun in the early stages of the disease. That's right. Syphilis and gonorrhea are cured in a very short time with penicillin. Not only does early diagnosis and treatment return the patient to health rapidly, but also protects his close associates from catching the infection from him. What about heart disease? Can we really prevent it? Well, it isn't preventable in the same sense as diphtheria or smallpox, for example, but it may be prevented to the extent that factors favorable to the development of heart disease may be found and corrected. Overweight after 30 is definitely a handicap, and the doctor will help the overweight patient to reduce. And worry and hurry, especially after 40, are poor company for the heart. Early diagnosis of a disease is then of prime importance. It certainly is. But of equal importance is finding predisposing factors to illness. These factors cannot always be seen with the naked eye or even with instruments. They often lie in the life habits of the patient. You mean the man over 45 who tries to crowd 52 weeks of physical exercise into a two-week vacation, don't you? Yes, and I refer not only to habits of exercise, but also to such things as the way people eat year after year, the amount of time they give to work and to relaxation, and to other personal habits we rarely think of as the doctor's concern until we get sick. Well, as we grow older, we should change some of our ways, shouldn't we? Yes, with the advice of the doctor. We predispose ourselves to illness by ways of living that have gone on for many, many years. The other side of the picture, and the one I like to stress most, is that obtaining expert advice in these personal matters helps us to live more vigorously. Many of us live in a state in which we are not really sick, but are not very well either. Our wrong personal habits rob our lives of much pleasure. The best medicine in such cases is a change in daily routines recommended by someone who knows what will result from these practices over a period of years. If you place yourself under expert medical guidance and then follow the advice given, you may live longer and you should certainly get more joy out of life. It seems to me if we have regular periodic health examinations from the time we're children, we will have a rather complete health record. Such a lifelong health record must be of real value. Yes, it is. A complete and continuous health record helps the doctor better understand the health of his patients. It helps the patient too. Anyone who has ever been in a hospital for any illness will remember the time it took to answer important questions about past illnesses. And not only that, the patient quite often forgets matters which may have a very great bearing on his present condition. These are the important details which a continuous health record will reveal. I can see that if a person's health record is kept up to date, his past medical history would be immediately ready for use in an emergency. And the one thought I would like to leave with you is that you will profit most if you make your family physician your friend. Be completely truthful with him about your life habits. Tell him frankly how you feel, not only about your bodily aches and pains, but also how you feel emotionally. The things that bother you during your everyday plans, whether you are happy or not, whether you feel nervous, whether you are suffering from sleeplessness or unpleasant dreams, or whether you are under an undue strain. To get the most out of your medical care, look upon your doctor as a friend. Yes, I think that's very important. Thank you, Dr. Antell, for your enlightening talk on why we should visit our doctor regularly. We invite you to listen in again at the same time next week to the timely talk, Spring Clean, the Medicine Cabinet. For your copy of today's talk, send your name and address on a postal card to the New York City Department of Health, 125 Worth Street, New York 13, New York. I'll repeat that address for you. It's the New York City Department of Health, 125 Worth Street, New York 13, New York. You have been listening to Dr. Michael Antell of the City's Department of Health in a discussion on visiting your doctor. Today's program has been one of a regular series presented each Tuesday and Thursday morning at this time by your city station in cooperation with New York City's Department of Health. We invite you now to stay tuned for a summary of the latest news followed at 11 o'clock by For the Ladies. This was a transcribed feature of the municipal broadcasting system.