We have a work in making available to the Department of Public Information of the United Nations a weekly spot in its program in order to present a report of the events which have taken place in the past seven previous days as seen by international officials and from the viewpoint of the international organization. We find that this is extremely important now because very seldom can the audiences anywhere get a comprehensive and overall report of what the United Nations is doing. Sometimes the headlines of conflict in some part of the world dominate the news. At other times, events of little interest to people not located near the place where they happen occupy the headlines. But what we want to do for you, listeners of the Progressive Network, is to give you every week all those elements which are essential to the adequate understanding of what the United Nations is doing in this troubled world of ours. Never has understanding of world issues been so vital to the maintenance of international peace and security as at the present time. Never has intelligent public support been so essential to the determination of policies that will lead to the Pacific settlement of all issues outstanding on our planet. We are beset from all sides by tensions, difficulties, controversies, disputes, and sometimes conflicts. We cannot understand most of those if they do not have a direct relationship with the life of our country or the everyday existence of our own community. What I would like to attempt in this weekly chat with you is to make it clear through the presentation of the actual news and facts and of such background information as may be necessary, why certain developments take place, the reasons for the attitudes which are adopted in the organs of the United Nations, and the causes of the troubles and obstacles which seem sometimes to stand on the way to an easy and rapid settlement of issues within the international organization. Today I would like to attempt for you a few definitions of terms and also to clarify certain attitudes which seem to be causing a great deal of confusion in the minds of the people, particularly here in the United States. the first one is that the United Nations does not act with enough speed that the diplomatic debate slows up any possibility of finding an adequate solution to the problems now under consideration. Well, I would just like to invite your attention to the fact that the processes of international negotiation as practiced within this world organization are by far more expeditious and frequently faster in producing results than those which are normally resorted to in dealing with local, in the local, or with national issues. In some cases. If you sometimes just turn your eyes and look upon the development of some of your own local problems in your individual communities, you will see how frequently to reach an agreement among the members of the local government, as to whether a certain bridge or a certain street, a bridge or a certain street or a certain playground may be or should be improved, takes weeks, months, and sometimes years of exchanges of views and discussion. Well, the people, curiously enough, although they are reconciled to this apparent slowness of the procedures of negotiation within the domestic jurisdiction, expect the international bodies to work so speedily that from one day to the other they can do away with any threats to the peace or resolve any actual conflicts which have taken place or bring about the millennium on short notice. Well, this is not possible. I think you cannot expect of an international organization greater efficacy in handling the big issues of war and peace, those big problems which make the difference between our being able to keep a world united and working together or condemning it to a condition of struggle, bitterness, and division, which would eventually bring about the destruction of everything we hold dear in the spiritual and the material fears. I think that people must, when they talk and think about international problems, realize that those who are responsible for the conduct of the foreign policy of the various nations must give very serious thought to those attitudes which translated into votes within the organs of the United Nations may make precisely that difference between peace and war. This is much more serious indeed for those countries which have suffered in the course of the half century to international war, which have seen the territories ravaged by enemy armies, their populations persecuted and insulted by representatives of an enemy, for those who are still struggling in order to come out of the deep depression in which they were morally and materially thrown by a long period of defeat and suffering. All those nations are very eager indeed to do whatever they can to go to the extreme limits provided naturally that they don't have to surrender any basic principle or any vital interest of their own nations in order to find formulae that will permit some sort of compromise to solve the divergent viewpoints now struggling against each other in the field of diplomacy. It is very interesting in this respect to see what is happening in the United Nations. an ever-growing group of the so-called non-big powers of the world are getting together in joint action to help those other nations nations, particularly the big powers to find some forms of settlement some understandings through the process of negotiation and exchange of views for the very fundamental issues for the very fundamental issues which divide them. You must realize that there is a tremendous difference between the mental attitude and the obligations of governments representing the big powers the big powers which have worldwide interests and those of the smaller nations which although affected which although affected but whatever may happen in any global settlement of world problems are still somewhat more independent and less less likely to suffer by the settlement of big issues issues anywhere anywhere outside their own immediate territorial connections. These countries which represent an overwhelming majority of the world's people and who do not see any need to align themselves finally with any of the extreme conceptions of life which are today being put before the loyalties of mankind are determined to do whatever they can to bring about some form of compromise so that the basic issues now being debated be settled peacefully among the big powers. I would like to say in regard to this that there is need for a very brief definition of compromise. Compromise means that each of the parties to a given dispute are willing to give up a part of what they consider their interest or their reason in order to reach some form of settlement. Compromise is not appeasement as some people think to believe. war is a very serious thing indeed ladies and gentlemen. No individual in its senses and no government truly representing the interest and the wishes of its citizens will engage lightly in any action which may lead to conflict and to bloodshed. We all want to have a world at peace and the United Nations is the machinery set up by the peoples of the world to make this possible. As long as the United Nations brings the spokesman for all the peoples to sit around the same tables and in the same meeting halls they can discuss and find agreements. The day the United Nations ceases to be the rallying point for all the peoples of the world they will only be able to meet in the battlefield amidst the mud the blood and the suffering of mankind.