Mr. Pope, President of the City Council of Pelletieri, Mr. Campania, Dr. Jansen, our distinguished guests of this afternoon, and friends of the Columbus Citizens Committee, I welcome each and every one of you to City Hall this afternoon. This is a great day for our public school, a day made possible by the generosity of the Columbus Citizens Committee and the President of that committee, Mr. Generoso Pope. The Christopher Columbus Scholarship Awards are comparatively new. They were presented for the first time in the summer of 1946, when ten awards of $200 each were made to the successful candidates. Today, forty scholarships are offered, and this number, I understand, may be increased. Listening to the remarks of Mr. Pope, the Commissioner Campania, and the Superintendent Dr. Jansen, I couldn't help but recollect and reflect on the significance of these scholarships to outstanding high school seniors about to enter college. Here is a group, all of whom are anxious to continue their education in college or take it to school. The first year at college can be difficult, particularly for those who must make a dollar go a long way. Regrettably, many of our deserving high school graduates must work after they enter college. The need for work makes adjustments to college life, trying and difficult. And so, Mr. Pope, your limited scholarship, which your organization is providing, are indeed a blessing to these young people. They offer hope and encouragement instead of despair and failure. These children, these prize winners, are the products of our public schools. They have surmounted many handicaps in their desire to receive a sound education. They have demonstrated that they have what it takes to become active, useful, loyal American citizens. I am very happy for today's winners. I'm very happy for their parents, for their teachers. But I am especially happy and grateful also for the warm interest which the Columbus Citizens Committee has shown. Here is an American organization interested in advancing the general welfare. These scholarships are non-sectarian. And I congratulate you, Mr. Pope, you, the officers, and the members of your organization, for a public service of the highest order. To the prize winners, I say congratulations. Good luck, and good luck, and may you all go very far. There is need for college-trained men and women everywhere. The Christopher Columbus Scholarship Awards open for you the door of opportunity. The rest is up to you. May God bless you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We've just heard the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Briar, participating in the Columbus Scholarship Awards in the Council Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Here's Mr. Pope back again. We should always remember the wonderful address you have just delivered. There is something that will linger on with us for a long time to come, Mr. Mayor. And now, Mr. Mayor, it gives me great pleasure to invite you to present these scholarship prizes in the name of the Columbus Citizens Committee. First one is Peter Semmon. Max Frankel. All right. Mr. Mayor, please. Alfred Schaeffer. There is a slight delay because the cameraman demand their innings at this time, and of course, it is a fine thing to see a group of young students lined up for these awards. As General Rosa Pope calls the name, the Mayor of the City of New York is making the award in person. And you have just heard his enthusiastic remarks in support of the splendid idea of removing from the shoulders of these young students the greater part of the fiscal responsibility for their education. Mr. President, President of the City Council, who represents Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, who will speak on Benjamin Franklin, Citizen for the Public Good. Mr. President, President of the City of New York, Mr. Freedman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mayor O'Dwyer, I want to welcome you to these historic chambers for the celebration of the 242nd anniversary of the birth of one of the greatest Americans of all over the world. Mr. Benjamin Franklin, a man whose unlimited talent and patriotic zeal exerted an indelible influence in the great American heritage which we share today. Mr. I am particularly happy to welcome you at City Hall as representatives of the printing and publishing industry and its kindred trades and professions. Mr. The people of the city of New York can take very justifiable pride in your industry, in its leadership, and in its accomplishments. Mr. For many years, it has been the custom to hold these commemorative exercises at City Hall. But it is my feeling that never before has the memory of Benjamin Franklin taken on greater significance than it does today. Mr. When our national prestige to which he has made such outstanding contributions is undergoing a great test, not only at home, but on many international horizons. Mr. These exercises are being held at a time when the basic rights and principles of many of the free people of the world are in peril. Mr. And it is incumbent upon us to meet this challenge with wisdom and with courage. Mr. We can look to the great career of Benjamin Franklin for inspiration in both. Mr. The previous speakers have given you very interesting and enlightening talks on the many phases of Franklin's life and concerning some of the specific contributions he has made to our way of living. Mr. It would be difficult to improve on what has already been said. Mr. It would be equally difficult to select any single achievement of this most versatile American as the sole basis of his lasting fame. But I would like to refer to one not too well known incident in the early life of Benjamin Franklin, which I think foretold the greatness that was to be his. Mr. The incident itself was truly historic and is very appropriate for this occasion since it concerns the early efforts of Franklin as a youthful printer and publisher. But beyond this, the incident affected freedom of expression through the printed word. Mr. And when was this principle more vital to our lives than it is today? Mr. I refer to the authenticated fact that Benjamin Franklin, just 225 years ago this week, when he was only 17 years of age, fought and won what appears to be the first fight in American history for the first time of the war. Mr. I want to sincerely thank the historic arts association and the Franklin society for enlightening me on the details of this episode in the career of the youth who was destined to be known as the father of American printing. Mr. While associated with his older brother in publishing the New England Courant during January 1723, Franklin was arrested and called upon by the authorities to divulge the name of the author of an essay published in that newspaper. Mr. Although his brother James had already been jailed for refusing the same demand. Mr. Young Franklin steadfastly adhered to his belief in the freedom of the printed word and also declined to divulge the information. Mr. Eventually, he won the argument and subsequently, as successor to his brother as publisher of the newspaper, used his special talents in furthering this democratic ideal. Mr. That principle for which young Franklin was the first to fight was fostered through the years and finally written into the Constitution when the free government of our country was founded. Mr. I repeat that the preservation of the principle of freedom of expression means much more to us today than ever before. Mr. It is the very foundation of the American point of view. Mr. And the American point of view is the symbol of freedom for the oppressed people of the entire world. Mr. Through the freedom of the press and radio, Americans have found the way to tell the difference between truth and propaganda, between light and darkness. Mr. This and many other cherished principles of our democratic form of government were finally embedded into Franklin's character in his early struggles. Mr. Fortunately, he was equipped with the genius and the courage to cement them into the foundations of our country. Mr. His patriotism, his philosophy, and his foresight into things that affected the future welfare of America have made us better able to meet the challenges of our times. Mr. It is gratifying to me as an elected official of our city to have participated in this program which gives honorable recognition to an outstanding America and demonstrates that despite the problems and the pressures of our lives today, we have not forgotten the early pioneers of liberty and democratic living. Mr. Before the close of the program, we would like to thank the New York School of Printing Orchestra under the direction of Nelson Faber for the musical selections heard. Mr. Thank you very much, Mr. Thank you so much for joining us. Mr. Thank you so much for joining us. Mr. Thank you. Mr. Thank you so much for joining us today. Mr. Thank you. Mr. Thank you. Mr. Before the close of the program, we would like to thank the New York School of Printing Orchestra under the direction of Nelson Faber for the musical selections heard. Thank you.