Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild telling you that we have a very exciting evening ahead of us this evening with Dr. Ralph Johnson Bunch, speaking on the United Nations and peace. Before we go into the program, I would like to mention that about this time of the year, every Chairman, I think most every Chairman, I know this one, has a great deal of difficulty worrying and thinking and dreaming about the next year's programs. In order to titillate you a little bit, I hope, I am just going to tell you that the second semester programs will concern, on Sundays, the problems of the 20th century, entitled 1950. Hans Cohn, author of the 20th century, will be the opening speaker. And we will have numerous other fine people down, including Lancelot Hogben from the London School of Economics and Raymond Walsh. On Tuesday nights, I have decided that one of the greatest problems that we'll face today is the problem of family marriage and family life. And on Tuesday nights, we're going to be discussing 12 phases of the problems of marriage and family life. And one of the speakers will be Dr. Lena Levine. You see, I'm just telling you a few of the people that are going to be here. And on Friday evening, we are going to have a musical series concerning folk music from numerous types of, from numerous areas and numerous types of folk music, including Madrigals and Bernice Kampselor, David Randolph and the David Randolph Singers, Oscar Brand, Alan Lomax, Ramoska and Lithuanian Songs and the Desoff Choir and numerous others will be down. Thank you for letting me tell you just a little bit of what we hope to bring you next time. Thank you. Thank you. Dean Fairchild, friends, it's an honor to speak from this platform. And I'm especially privileged to participate in the 90th anniversary of this great American institution. The people of a society are its richest resource. And nothing, it seems to me, can be so vital as the protection, the cultivation, the development of that resource. The very sins of a democratic society are the rights of free speech and free assembly and the persistent and unrestrained intellectual inquiry on the part of its citizenry. This forum is widely renowned for its contributions to American democracy in this regard. And I'm very happy at this first opportunity to visit with you. I have elected to speak to you quite informally this evening on the subject of the United Nations and Peace. And I've selected that subject because I believe that the peoples of the world, all of the peoples of the world, long for peace above everything else. And because the United Nations, in my view, is their only hope for security against future war. Standing here, I recall a significant incident that occurred about 10 months ago on the beautiful island of Rhodes in the eastern Mediterranean. At that time, the representatives of Egypt and Israel, meeting in a room in the Hotel de Rose on the island of Rhodes, had just signed an armistice agreement. It was the first of the four armistice agreements between the Arab states and Israel, which marked the end of the military phase of the Palestine conflict. This bitter conflict between Arabs and Jews in the Near East. At the end of the ceremony, an American military officer, one of the senior United Nations military observers who were serving with us out there in connection with the true supervision work, came to me. He was a grizzled veteran of two world wars. He had been engaged in Palestine in hazardous assignments. Assignments so hazardous that he had been aware that 11 of our colleagues had fallen and 21 had been wounded. And in that number of fatalities was Count Bernadotte, our former chief. And when he came up to me, he spoke with emotion and very great earnestness. And he said these words, This is the greatest experience of my life. This is self-satisfying and rewarding work. Today we have saved countless lives. The only war in which I shall ever again wish to participate is the fight for peace. That officer is still on duty in Palestine. For now there are many such soldiers of peace serving the United Nations in numerous troubled spots throughout the world. They are true servants of humanity. And I believe that no soldiers in the world today are as indispensable as these. They go into dangerous, inflamed areas, armed only with the authority of the United Nations and a deep devotion to the cause of world peace for which it stands. Now I emphasize the role of these unsung international heroes precisely because those who do not follow closely the work of the United Nations, who rely pretty much upon the daily press for their impressions of the United Nations, may harbor the false impression that the work of the United Nations consists of debate alone. And I can understand how one may readily gain that impression. The reports of the meetings of the United Nations are reports of delegates coming from the 59 countries, assembling in the General Assembly, the Security Council, Trusteeship Council, Economic and Social Council, other organs and commissions of the United Nations, engaging in prolonged and often acrimonious debate, generally disagreeing and then returning home only to await their return at a future day. And of all of this, the newspapers conveniently provide the public with a daily box score, a sort of blow-by-blow description of the work of this organization. But what I wish to emphasize tonight is that in its persistent efforts to preserve the peace of the world, the United Nations follows up the policy deliberations, the debates in the major organs, the debates in the General Assembly and the Security Council, for example, by extensive operational functions. It sends committees and commissions, with large staff and extensive equipment, into the danger zones, wherever they may be, wherever the peace of the world is broken or is threatened with being broken. And the purpose of these missions is to represent the United Nations on the spot, in the field, and to lead the disputing parties along the road to peaceful settlement. So, the personnel, the flags, the insignia, of the United Nations, are found today in virtually every danger spot in the world. These are the peace armors of the United Nations. the United Nations. The United Nations. Where fighting has broken out locally, United Nations representatives, they may be civilian or military or both, men and women, backed up by urgent demands from the Security Council and the General Assembly, induce the fighting parties to halt the shooting by accepting ceasefire orders or truces and ultimately armistices and then, in an atmosphere of greed of tension, continue to work with the parties toward the ultimate definitive peaceful settlement. That was the sort of operation that the United Nations conducted in Palestine. But the Palestine operation was only one of numerous such operations carried on by the United Nations. The Palestine operation, the Palestine Peace Army, if you please, was the largest of them all thus far. At the peak of our activity in the Near East last year, we had a total of more than 700 people scattered throughout the seven Arab states and Palestine. And this was exclusive of the crews of three destroyers, United States destroyers, which had been loaned to the United Nations for the purpose of the true supervision and which flew the flag of the United Nations at their masthead. And it was an inspiring sight. Two French corvettes were similarly loaned to the United Nations for this purpose. Exclusive of the crews of these ships, there were over 700 people in this United Nations Near Eastern Peace Army. The cost approximated $750,000 per month. The operation had to be self-sufficient with regard to communications and transport. it had to have its own equipment. It had several hundred Jeeps and trucks and a fleet of 15 planes, all marked with the insignia of the United Nations. And this mission, charged with responsibility for maintaining the truth between parties that had just been engaged in a bitter and emotional war, needless as it was, had to exercise a great deal of authority. It often gave orders, orders that troops which had advanced beyond two lines should withdraw. And in more cases than not, these orders were respected. And I recall quite vividly that in the early days of the operation, this being the first instance in which the United Nations had attempted this sort of thing, we would give those orders and then keep our fingers very much crossed and were presently surprised when the orders were obeyed. Well now, I tell you this because there is, I know, a good deal of skepticism about the ability of the United Nations to preserve the peace of the world. And this is because in the turbulent post-war period, the United Nations has been seized with so many delicate, complex, explosive problems and has not produced definitive solutions for most of them. but I submit that if the United Nations has not always produced definitive results and tidy decisions when it has intervened in these dangerous and crucial problems, it has nevertheless in every instance dulled the dangerous edge of the problem and has removed it from the realm of problems posing an imminent and ominous threat to the peace of the world. And I submit that this has been the case in an impressive, indeed in a frightening array of situations, including such dangerous disputes some of which are already almost forgotten by the general public, such dangerous disputes as those in Iran, in Indonesia, in Korea, in Kashmir, in Greece, and in Palestine. And in the Berlin crisis also, the United Nations provided the effective international pressure and the necessary bridge by means of which the United States and the Soviet Union could undertake the preliminary discussions and negotiations which led to the temporary settlement settlement of the Berlin crisis in the meeting of the foreign ministers in Paris last spring. Well, now, each of these situations that I have mentioned has been heavily charged. Each has posed an actual or a potential threat to the peace of the world. great power interests of a conflicting nature were involved in each case. In some instances, fighting had already broken out with the gravest implications because of the strategic nature of the areas involved. But in each of these disputes, the tension has been greatly eased as a result of United Nations intervention and the threat to the peace of the area and of the world has been either eliminated entirely or greatly lessened. In Iran and Indonesia, there have been final and amicable settlements. In Palestine, the war has ended militarily and negotiations looking toward the final peace settlement are proceeding and that final peace settlement will be achieved. The end of the Greek difficulty is in sight. Korea and Kashmir remain troubled, but there is no more fighting and there has been no fighting for some time. Where final settlement has not been achieved in these situations, the United Nations, in a much improved atmosphere, continues its intervention toward the end of assisting the parties to find the way to definitive and peaceful settlement. In other words, the United Nations knows very well that peace in our time or in the future cannot be ensured by ardently wishing for or by merely debating about it. peace. The United Nations is alert to every situation throughout the world which threatens peace. Despite the cumbersomeness, the awkwardness of machinery which now involves the national policies and interests of 59 nations, the United Nations has nevertheless promptly and effectively and firmly intervened in every dangerous situation which has arisen since its organization four years ago. And that with the full force, and this is highly important, with the full force of international opinion and moral sanction behind it. And so I must ask what is the obvious question? Where would the world, our world, where would the world be today? Had there been no United Nations in these dangerous post-war years? Where would these ominous disputes these several crises in far-flung areas of the world, where would they have led us had there been no prompt and effective intervention by the United Nations? I think the answer is too obvious to require any elaboration. The United Nations then has been waging a cold war against war. And I believe, and I think in harboring that belief, I am not either naive or a foolish optimist. I believe that the United Nations is slowly but surely winning this war and that it is doing so, and if it is doing so, if I am right, then there is nothing that has happened in our generation so important to every one of us here tonight. but as General Romulo warned the General Assembly at the closing meeting of its encouraging fourth session early yesterday afternoon just before it adjourned, and I quote his words, the road to permanent peace is a long, weary, and tortuous one. we must traverse every foot of it step by patient step, undismayed by dead ends and giddy precipices, hacking away at the many obstacles with a perseverance born of the consciousness that mankind is doomed the moment we yield to despair and acknowledge failure. End of quote. it is in a sense jungle warfare that the United Nations must wage today in its stubborn fight for world peace. Now, accepting all that I've said, it may still be questioned that granted that the United Nations may avert or even stop fighting between small states as in the case of Palestine and Indonesia and elsewhere, can the United Nations stop a big war? That is, a war involving the great powers directly. In these smaller disputes in which the United Nations has intervened, great power interests have been involved, but with the exception of the dispute in Iran, there was no direct involvement of the great powers in the sense of armed forces. Well, certainly, in response to this question, we must all certainly, must all fervently hope that the United Nations can do so. But I would be much less than frank and honest if I stood here and told you that I knew the answer or for that matter knew anyone who does know the answer. But it may be pointed out in this regard, however, that modern big wars have always been preceded by little ones, and that thus far the United Nations has demonstrated a reassuring ability to halt the little ones, to check them. And that this is so, I think, may itself be taken as a measure of the determination of peoples the world over, that war must be averted at all costs, and that the UN must succeed in its mission of peace. But there are other factors of importance in the peace equation. The peoples of the earth, and by peoples of the earth I mean all of the peoples of the earth, and I believe that this includes the peoples of the east as well as the peoples of the west. The peoples of the earth, I say, fervently wish lasting peace. I simply do not believe that there are any peoples who are naturally warlike or who are seeking war. it is the peoples who unhappily must fight the wars, and I think that the peoples surely have had more than enough of war. They must know, and there is evidence increasingly that they do know, that in modern war there are no victors. more, they know that in this age of atomic bombs, of supersonic aircraft, of bacteriological weapons, that in such an age, the peoples and our entire civilization are living on borrowed time, so long as the possibility of war persists. I do not believe that the common people, the men in the street, anywhere in the world today, would ever willingly elect war as a means of settling disputes between nations. nations. But having said that, I must say that I recognize fully, however, that peoples may be seduced by propaganda, that they may be deprived of the opportunity freely to express their will, and that this must be accepted as a recognized and ever-present danger, and perhaps is the basic cause of the universal feeling of security which affects us all. But I believe that the strongest bulwark against war, the strongest foundation for the United Nations in its peace effort, is to be found in free people. In the world today, there are hundreds of millions of people who would be the staunchest allies, the staunchest defenders in the fight for peace, were they but free. The surest way to erect an invulnerable defense for peace is to elevate the dispossessed of the earth. It is in the mass millions in Africa, in Asia, in the Caribbean, that the decisive strength for peace can be found. For should these freedom-hungry people, these freedom-hungry masses of people, be put on a diet of equality and democracy, they will so mightily reinforce the forces of peace that no state would ever again dare undertake an aggressive adventure. And whatever the cost of freeing the subject people comes to work, and affording them that economic assistance, which they might need, and the cost would be great, the figure nevertheless would be negligible as compared with the cost of only a short period of a future war. I believe that there is no investment in the world today for peace which would give such rich return. The course to secure peace has been clearly charted by the United Nations. It's a difficult, but it's not an impassable course. And there must be an effective system for the control of atomic energy and the prohibition of atomic weapons. There must be agreement on a substantial reduction of armaments. There must be full respect for the integrity of state. There must be recognition of the equality and the essential dignity of man. And it must be said that the United Nations has not yet succeeded in persuading its member nations to follow that course without deviation. But its efforts to do so, I may assure you, will be unrelenting. The course has been obscured, obscured by the artificial fog of finger-pointing, of reciprocal recrimination and suspicion, of challenge and counter-challenge, of denunciation and propaganda. But the United Nations will not be deterred, and the pressure of international opinion mobilized behind the United Nations in increasing force and effectiveness will in time disperse this purely political fall. And it is important that this pressure increase day by day, and its ultimate effect will be inexorable. law. The United Nations has now gained rich experience in the use of the techniques of conciliation and mediation in the dissipation of differences among states. It has learned that this process is tortuous, slow, difficult, and that it is, as General Romulo puts it, a workman's tool and not a magician's wand. But it is also learned that the process of mediation and conciliation can be decisively effective when applied to disputes, as indeed it has been in such disputes as those in Indonesia and Palestine. It must be faced also that there are sharp differences among states today, and particularly between West and East. But I know of no reason to say that these differences cannot be settled by peaceful means. I believe that there is a basis for peace in the world despite these differences, differences, and that without minimizing their seriousness. I believe that through the United Nations, all existing differences threatening world security not only can, but will, in due course, be settled by peaceful means. In other words, I have confidence that peace will prevail. and I have that confidence perhaps because I work daily in the United Nations, because I have served on the firing line of peace for the United Nations, and because perhaps I dare not believe that the peoples of the world would permit it to fail when they would know what the implications of this failure would inevitably be. But you see, when one has seen bitter enemies under the influence of the United Nations come together, forget, put aside, their differences, join each other in common fellowship, get underneath their emotions, emotions which have had them killing each other like cattle only a short time before, one cannot be impressed, but be impressed with the efficacy of international intervention, and with the potentiality of United Nations efforts in this direction. And I think inevitably of the armistice negotiations between the Arab states and Israel. I had every reason to know how bitterly antagonistic these disputing parties were, how highly charged were their emotions, how terrific their struggle. And when the Arab and the Israeli delegations came to Rhodes, they were not easy to bring together, they were enemy delegations, the Israelis were always willing to sit down and undertake direct negotiations, but the Arabs were always reluctant to do so. And at the beginning, it was not possible to bring them together. I recall how we had to plead to get the first joint meeting in one set of the negotiations. The two delegations had been on the island of Rhodes for five days. They'd been living in the same hotel, living in rooms not far apart from each other. they'd been eating in the same small dining hall, they'd been passing each other in the corridors, they were fully aware of the presence of each other, but they were not on speaking terms, they had not been introduced, and I had not been able to get them into a joint meeting. And finally, I persuaded the chairman of the Arab delegation that my athletic days were just too far behind me to continue with the sort of negotiations we were carrying on, which consisted of talking with the Arab delegation first, and then talking with the Israeli delegation, and running back to the Arab delegation to tell them what the Israelis had said, and then giving the Israelis their reaction to what the Israelis had said. And this became an endless chain. And so, after the application of considerable persuasion, we did get agreement on the first joint meeting. And we took every precaution in that first joint meeting. we set up the tables in a rectangle and kept the two sides far enough apart so that they couldn't quickly resume the war. We prepared a script of what would happen in the meeting, rehearsed it with the two parties. Included in the script was one action which called for the chairman of the two delegations to be introduced to each other by me, whereupon, on the grounds that even among enemies there were certain elementals of courtesy that had to be observed, the two chairmen would shake hands. And this was agreed to by both. And at the appointed day and hour, the Arab delegation came into the meeting room first, took its seats, and then the Israeli delegation came into the room. The Israeli delegate, as the script called for, walked over to me and the two of us together, walked over to the Arab chairman, but that's where the script broke down. because the Arab chairman, instead of rising and offering his hand as had been expected, sat and looked stonily ahead. The Israeli was a highly responsible person, and instead of leaving the room as he might have, he walked to his seat, but it was a measured walk, and the atmosphere in the room was electrically explosive. So much so that I deemed it the better part of discretion to do all the talking myself, and not to call on either delegation for any remarks. It turned out to be the shortest international meeting on record. We conducted business sort of by stock market technique, nods of the head, but the record shows that there was full agreement on every item on the agenda. We prepared the record. And after the meeting, the Israeli came up to me, as I expected he would, and pointed out that personal insult was one thing, but an insult to the head of a delegation, a delegation representing a sovereign state was another, and he could not accept this responsibility, and therefore he would have to consult with his government as to whether his delegation might remain on roads at all. I then went to the Arab representative, and I must say at this point, this was a puzzling incident, because the Arabs by culture are an extremely polite people, and this was an unusually polite Arab. And I told him I was bewildered by what happened, and he then explained to me he was very sorry that he had agreed to go through with the handshake, but before the meeting, my meeting, his delegation had held a caucus and had voted that he should not shake hands, and he was bound by the decision of his delegation. I pointed out to him that this act of personal discourtesy threatened to break up the negotiations, that if the negotiations would break up, in all probability, the armed forces of the two countries would be at war again within a matter of days, and that if this happened, the blood and the responsibility would be on his hands, not for failure to get agreement over a legitimate difference in substance, but over an act of personal discourtesy. He said he did not wish to assume this responsibility, and so if I would have the Israeli chairman in my room that night at nine o'clock, he would come up, he would not only shake hands with him, but he would apologize. apologize, but he said, don't tell my delegation. And so, he came, and he not only shook hands, but he apologized, and he began his apology in English, but not being very fluent in English. He referred to Arabic. It happened that the Israeli was a Palestinian native, and actually handled Arabic as well, if not better than the Arab, because the Arabs' natural native language was Turkish rather than Arabic. And they went on to discuss after the apology. In fact, toward the end, they were apologizing to each other in Arabic, though I never knew just what for, and wasn't much concerned, because they were obviously getting on well together. They sat down and talked for the next hour in Arabic with apologetic glances to me every now and then, because they knew I understood no Arabic. And the point in telling this is that after this incident, which threatened to break up the negotiations, the relations between the delegations were much improved. The negotiations went on much more quickly. A new rapport had been established between the two delegations. A barrier had been removed. A man had been insulted. Another man had apologized. They had met. They had talked to each other as human beings. And from that time on, it was much easier to do so. We had many such incidents. In another case, an Israeli officer, in one instance, in heated discussions, lost his temper and let fly with the pencil. The pencil might have landed many places, but in this instance, it happened to land on the breast of the Arab chairman. And we had another insult crisis. His position was that, as he explained it to me, that he'd been an officer all of his life. He was a military career man. He'd been shot at. He'd been trained to be shot at. He'd been expected to be shot at. But this was his first diplomatic mission. Nobody told him that when he came on such a mission, he would sit at a table and permit the enemy on the opposite side of the table to throw things at him. This was not warfare. This was just plain insult. And so he was disposed to consult with his government about leaving the negotiations. In that instance, I've read with him for a time. I went to see the Israeli, told him the same thing, that he would have this responsibility on his hand. And he went up to the Arab chairman's room immediately, and in Arabic, apologized to him, after which they sat down and began to discuss in Arabic, taking up where the meeting had left off when the pencil was thrown, and made more progress than we had made for several days in the meeting, as a matter of fact. But I give these incidents to give the rest of the story. We had, as I say, a tremendous difficulty in getting the two parties together. first to even sit down together. Then numerous incidents which threatened to send one side or the other home, because the enemy had rendered an insult. But when, in each instance, the armistice agreements were signed, when they had put their names to the agreements, each of which incorporated a provision which amounted to a non-aggression pact, then a completely different relationship was established. after each signing, there was a party, a party initiated by the delegates themselves. In one instance, a plane full of food and drink was flown in by one of the delegations. which gave the party. The other delegation was invited to it. One of those parties was enlivened by a jazz band which had been borrowed from an American ship in the harbor, which one of the delegations managed to do, though I had never been able to entice that band to shore. And there was dancing for half of the night. These bitter enemies, who had been so difficult even to bring into the same room, after six weeks of negotiation, found it possible to sit down together very aimably, to dance together, to act as fellow human beings. I remember many incidents. I remember walking into the room of an Arab officer on the Transjordan, the Hashemite Jordan Kingdom delegation one morning. I went in to express my sorrow, because I had just learned that he had received news that his entire family in Jordan, his mother, his father, sisters, brothers, their children, had been wiped out by a disaster caused when a flood brought on the collapse of the house in which they all were. And when I opened the door and walked into this room, what did I see? I saw the Arab colonel and several of his Arab colleagues. And in the middle of the circle, I saw the chairman of the Israeli delegation, all of them with heads bowed. He had been in there for a half an hour, mourning with this Arab colonel, who had only shortly before then received the tragic news. We saw in Palestine, as a result of United Nations intervention, as early as in the period of the first truce, daily convoys of foodstuffs and medical supplies traverse the dangerous road from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, through Arab lines all the way with Arab guns lining the road and Arab troops looking down upon the convoys. Jewish convoys, unarmed, led only by two or three United Nations officials, twice a day traversed this road to carry food and medical supplies to the Jewish population of Jerusalem. I say this because there are many such instances, not only in Palestine, but in other troubled areas where the United Nations missions have been, of the ability of this sort of United Nations intervention to bring bitter enemies together. But in the final analysis, of course, the success of the United Nations clearly will be measured by the faith and the active support which it will enjoy from the peoples of the world and to which, and the extent to which there is a realization on the part of these peoples of the responsibility, the heavy responsibility which every individual must assume if peace is to be kept secure. The world needs many more people to beat the drums of peace. Too many of us, altogether too many of us pay only lip service to peace. Too many of us are fickle and perfunctious in kneeling before the altar of peace. It is imperative that the peoples who wish peace, if they wish peace, and whose interests are served by the United Nations should have faith and confidence in the ability of the United Nations to succeed. To succeed where the League of Nations failed. Yet it's fatefully ironic that so many essentially peace-loving peoples and I fear that a very great many of them are my fellow Americans. So many essentially peace-loving peoples adopt a fatalistic state of mind which persuades them that for one or another reason and usually the reason is the difference between East and West. The United Nations must fail and that war, therefore, is either inevitable or virtually so. And I say that there is too much of this sort of dangerously loose thinking in the contemporary world. It is reckless and irresponsible thinking in an atomic age. And I think that the pessimism which it reflects is not supported by the record. The world needs and needs very greatly, desperately, more talk about peace, more determination to have peace, and much less resignation to the inevitability of war. Because the stakes for which the world now plays are enormously high. What are those stakes? They are no less than survival. no effort for peace is too great when the preservation of our civilization, when the preservation of mankind itself is at stake. In these circumstances, it would seem to me that it can never be a manifestation of weakness on the part of anyone, can never be a manifestation of weakness to stand for peace, to strive for peace, to make reasonable compromises for peace. Because in these circumstances, all nations, all nations, stand before humanity's bar of judgment. And I think that no nation can afford ever to be self-righteous. There's a blanket of dangerous suspicion covering the world. There are barriers of ideology, of national pride and protocol, which currently stand between nations. And these barriers cannot be removed. Obviously, they cannot be removed. by mutual denunciation, by finger-pointing or name-calling. Even a war of words is ominous in these dangerous times. And time is short, very short. The world desperately needs a universal mobilization for peace, a real peace offensive. And in this way alone, will it be possible to segregate the peace-minded sheep from the war-minded goats? And I believe that when that segregation is made, the peace-loving peoples of the world will show their ability to contain and contain fully the war-minded goats. peace. But this is not a responsibility of government alone. It's a responsibility of every individual who believes in peace and who treasures his future and his children's future. And particularly is this so in societies whose governments, as ours, are responsive to the will of the people. in our society, for example, a democratic society, our government is, so to speak, the congressman representing each of us in the United Nations. And we are always entitled to be sure that our congressman truly represents our will, our interests, our present and our future well-being. And to enjoy this assurance, all citizens must be fully informed and constantly alert. The representatives of the 51 nations who formulated this charter, which is the basis for the United Nations, San Francisco, four years ago, were men of great wisdom and understanding. They knew that it would not be enough even if the United Nations could dissipate recurrent threats to the peace of the world by means of effective intervention whenever such threats might arise. They knew that this sort of peace at best could be but an uneasy peace. They knew and they acted accordingly that peace could be securely founded only when the roots of war had been thoroughly dug out. They knew that the roots of war are found in the state of mind of peoples, in their inequalities and insecurities, in the denial of their inalienable rights. And thus, great stress was placed on human rights and fundamental freedoms, on tolerance, on understanding and cooperation among all peoples. the chatter of the United Nations therefore recognizes that peace to be secure must rest upon solid foundations. The voice of the United Nations is thus being increasingly heard and I may say felt for a just world, a good world, a world fit to live in for all the people, for all the people irrespective of their race or their religion. And what is a just world? A just world in the eyes of the United Nations and I submit in the eyes of all fair-minded people and all peace-loving people. is a world in which racial and religious bigotries are universally outlawed. A world in which all peoples, whatever their color, their racial origin, or their religious identification, in which all peoples are accepted as equals in a fraternal bond of human kinship. a world in which discrimination, segregation, underprivilege, imperialism and colonialism and whatever for, will have become the unsavory relics of a dark age, a dark age happily passed. Thank you. The foundations for peace will be insecure and uneasy as long as vast numbers of people are deprived of elemental human rights, so long as great populations are afflicted with poverty, disease, famine, and illiteracy, so long as hundreds of millions of non-self-governing or colonial peoples throughout the world are denied the fundamental right to control their own destinies. And so agencies of the United Nations are devoting incessant effort toward raising living and labor standards, removing trade restrictions, improving health conditions, and increasing food production. The universal declaration of human rights covering a broad span of rights, civil, political, economic, and educational has been adopted and proclaimed a year ago. The Charter of the United Nations holds forth the promise of a new day and a new way of life for the colonial peoples. But that day is yet far from fulfilled. And now, as I conclude, I must say that there could be no better place, I think, to say these final few remarks than a forum before which the great emancipator, Abraham Lincoln, spoke. There can be no secure peace, no stability, in a world only half free. This must be recognized. And if I now speak for a brief moment, as an ordinary American citizen and not as an international civil servant, I would repeat my opening statement that the most valuable resources of any country are its people. and yet, if that be so, the fact is that in our own country today, our human resources, white and black alike, are being squandered. One might say, recklessly and indifferently squandered. They are being squandered in interracial conflict, in prejudices, in animosities, mistrust, and suspicions among groups which prevent that unity of purpose and that cooperative effort which alone could enable and ensure the full realization of the national potential in our human resources. purpose. The vitality of this great country derives from the very unity of purpose and devotion to its democratic ideals of the diversified peoples, peoples diversified by race, religion, and national origin who make up its population. disunity, group conflict can only sap and do sap that vitality. Our strength as a nation also lies in the fact that we have always been able and willing to face our shortcomings frankly and to attack them realistically. to enjoy our maximum strength we obviously need more applied and I emphasize applied democracy. We need to live up to the principles which we believe in and for which we are exalted indeed by the democratic world. We need a mobilization throughout the country of men and women of good will. Of men and women who are determined to see American democracy fulfill its richest promise. Who are determined to see that the gap between the profession of democracy on the one hand and its daily practice on the other is quickly and fully closed. This nation by its traditional philosophy, by its religious precepts, by its constitution, stands for the brotherhood of man and full respect for the rights and dignity of the individual. By giving full expression to these ideals in our daily life, we can achieve a democratic society here so strong, so utterly strong, in the hearts and minds of its citizens, so sacred to every individual that it will be forever invulnerable to any sort of attack, internal or external. Because I believe in the reason and the essential goodness of human beings, because I have deep respect for and faith in my fellow men, I look to the future of group relations in this country with reasonable optimism. I know that there are very many men and women of good will in all sections of this country, including the South, that their ranks increase daily, that their influence is being widely felt, and that this influence is gradually clearing away the race relations fog which has enshrouded us. But they must always recognize these people of good will, that minority peoples, peoples deprived of their rights, will always be impatient until those rights are enjoyed in full. And the reason this must inevitably be so must be very clear to any fair-minded person. it may be summed up by the fact, by the statement, that one who is denied his rights today must be impatient in their denial since it is impossible for anyone ever to enjoy a right posthumously. and if then, I may speak personally, I may say that I'm proud to be an American and I am proud of my origin. I believe in the American way of life. I wish to see my country strong, strong in every way, strong in the nature and practice of its democratic way of life, strong in its world leadership, strong in both its material and its spiritual values, strong in the hearts and the minds of all of its peoples, whatever their race, their color, or their religion, and in their unshakable devotion to them, to it, for what it means to them. them. And finally, I must ask, is it really too much to hope, too much to hope for a realization in our time of the United Nations ideal whereby peoples would practice tolerance and live together in peace with one another as good neighbors? If this ideal is far from realization today, it is only because of the perversity of the state of mind of mankind. Man's reason and man's calculated self-interest can be powerful forces for changes in attitudes and practices. The peace of the world really depends upon such changes in attitudes and practices. forces. It is then the peoples of the world who hold the answer to that burning question, war or peace. has been away. Thank you. I certainly do want to thank you for coming down here to Cooper Union and giving us this very, very fine talk. Dr. Bunch, do you think world government is possible with the United Nations as a stepping stone? Dean, could you hear him? Thank you. On the basis of its works, increasing authority. In other words, a process of evolutionary development toward a greater authority in international affairs. And this can only be based upon an increasing faith and confidence of people in the efficacy of international organization as the United Nations proves its worth. As it has success in this or that area in Indonesia and Palestine and so on. As it proves that it can pay its way. And paying its way is very cheap for the people. The per capita cost to the population of this country for the peace insurance which the United Nations now underwrites is 10 cents per head. If the people, by seeing the United Nations work to its maximum potentiality, become convinced, as I'm certain they will, that it is in their interest to have increased authority for the international organization. That authority will in time be given. In other words, it is a process of evolution which is, of course, the history of political organization, national or international. Anyway, and for my part, I hope the United Nations will function so well that peoples and nations all over the world will be willing, indeed eager, to give it to give it an increasing authority at the expense of national sovereignty. There are already indications in that direction. Proposals made for the control of atomic energy would very greatly invade the sacred precincts of national sovereignties. The members of the United Nations now, by their very membership in it, and subscription to the charter have agreed to surrender a substantial part of their sovereign powers. And so the United Nations is already moving in the direction of increasing authority, and that is a trend which it seems to me all peace-loving peoples will very much applaud. Thank you very much, Doctor. Here's a young lady. Your name, please. Evelyn Belov. Evelyn Belov. Not loud enough. Evelyn Belov. My question? The Israelis have for a long time pleaded for direct negotiations with the Arab nations. Why doesn't the UN force the outside powers who are preventing this to desist? May I simply say, my dear lady, that it is something of a leading question, and one must accept the assumptions to put the question. And my experience out there, I found no evidence to indicate that anybody but themselves was preventing the Arabs from entering into direct negotiations with the Israelis. There was nobody preventing the Egyptians or the Syrians or the Lebanese, for example, except the decision of the political leaders. And when we would say to the leaders, it would be much better if you would sit down with the Israelis. This is the sensible way, the most sensible way. Sit down with the Israelis yourself and work out your differences. Then we would applaud you. They would tell us, well, that's very fine, but you're asking us to commit suicide. And we used to think that maybe this was just a statement. But the fact of the matter is, of the Arab leaders with whom I dealt out there, and this only during the past year, there is only one left, and that is the prime minister of Lebanon, Riyad Sol. Nukrashi Pasha of Egypt was assassinated a short time after, in fact, he agreed to undertake the armistice negotiations a short time after my visit to Cairo in December of last year. Martim Bey of Syria is in exile and has been in exile for many months. The prime minister of Transjordan, the prime minister of Iraq, with whom I dealt, they too are gone. It wasn't entirely bluff when the Arab leaders said to us that they could not undertake this because of the sentiment, public opinion at home. And so these things had to be undertaken in the first instance under the sponsorship and the cover of the United Nations. And the Israelis themselves very much appreciated that this was the case. Thank you, Dr. Bunch. I'm certainly glad you're here, sir. Is not the internationalization of Jerusalem recently voted by the United Nations contrary to the principle of self-determination of peoples? That's a question handed in, Dr. Bunch. Yes, I understand that. I think it's useless to approach it on that basis. The basis on which it must be considered is the fact that Jerusalem today is under the effective control and occupation of two parties. The new city by the Israelis, the old city, the Arab city, by the forces of the Hashemite Jordan kingdom, the forces of Abdullah, the Arab legion. Both the Israelis and Jordan have stated their open and vigorous opposition to any form of internationalization. The Israelis, however, have expressed their willingness that measures should be taken adequately to protect, on behalf of the international community, the holy places. In the face of that opposition, the Assembly on Saturday voted a resolution for the internationalization of Jerusalem. But the details of that scheme, the draft statute, so to speak, are to be worked out by the trusteeship council. It seems to me that at this stage, there is no reason for alarm or for excitement. In international affairs, there are often many ways to do many things. And there will be consultations with interested parties. There will be reports by the trusteeship council to the General Assembly. Until there is an opportunity to see just what does develop in this next stage, I think it useless to comment. Because despite my two years of association in Palestine, I became neither a prophet nor the son of a prophet. And I never speculate. Dr. Bunch, here is Mr. Charles Schaefer, one of our 30-year men. Mr. Schaefer. My question is, will the internationalization of Jerusalem be the beginning of the internationalization of the whole world? That question was, will the internationalization of Jerusalem be the beginning of the internationalization of the whole world? Well, that's a prophetic question, too. I think we could classify that as a rhetorical question. The answer is itself. But seriously, there is one problem that derives from this sort of question. The United Nations is an international organization. Its power will increase, its authority will increase in direct proportion to the de-emphasis of national sovereignty, to the de-emphasis of nationalism. And yet, while this is fundamentally so, and it is important that it should be so, the United Nations often finds itself taking decisions which basically cut across its fundamental purpose of de-emphasizing, minimizing nationalism. Every time, as in the case of Palestine, in the case of Libya, at this assembly, it acts as midwife, so to speak, for the establishment, in the establishment of a new state, in the graduation of a people from colonial subject status to national independent status, it is creating new nationalisms. But certainly, there is, I think, no one who would wish to see the world or would consider it a progressive step for the world to be, so to speak, internationally administered. What we want is free people administering themselves, but doing so with a maximum of authority on international problems delegated to an international organization. Dr. Bunch, is the United Nations having any luck in lifting the cultural and scientific iron curtain? Just how far have they gone in bringing together the scientific and the artistic minds of the East and West? I'm afraid not very far. This is the work of UNESCO, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization, and so far as I know, it has not made any startling progress in this field. All right, sir, and thank you very much, Dr. Bunch, for this very, very nice evening. Thank you.