It may be asked why the head of the New York Fire Department is speaking on a program for New York Catholic Charities. I could give you several answers to that question, even though the Fire Department is not a welfare organization. One is that the work of Catholic Charities, carried on in close cooperation and in joint responsibility with the city's public welfare agencies, concerns every New Yorker. Another, both personal and official, is that as head of the Fire Department, I have had many opportunities to seek Catholic Charities in action, meeting human emergencies and what I have been seen as good. And what I have seen is only a small corner of the job that the institutions and agencies of Catholic Charities do for people of all ages, all races and all creeds. It's a great work, this job of taking care of the poor and the sick, the helpless baby and the friendless old folks, giving the youth healthy and wholesome opportunities for play, heading the unruly spirits away from trouble within the law. I doubt if many of you realize that this great private, voluntary, charitable federation last year helped more than 400,000 men, women and children in the ten counties that constitute the Catholic Archdiocese of New York. That's the equivalent of a big city in itself. Some of these folks needed only a kind word and a bit of advice to set right a family situation that seemed to be headed for a smash-up. Others had to have money, under conditions that the city's relief program did not cover. Still others, struggling with the high cost of food and other necessities, got expert advice that kept the family budget balanced and the little ones well nourished. And many required hospital care. The 15 general and 8 special hospitals, under Catholic Charities, worked at capacity in 1947. They served more than 125,000 people, in beds and in clinics. Gave out more than 35,000 free prescriptions for medicine. And to people who couldn't pay, they gave more than 200,000 days of free care. While the city made payments for some of these free patients, the city's contribution increased during the year. Fell short of meeting the higher costs imposed by 1947 prices. Those higher costs also fell heavily on the agencies responsible for the care of children. Dependent and neglected youngsters ranging in age from day-old infants to adolescents of 18 years. These youngsters, more than 20,000 of them, were given loving care and institutions, in boarding and adoptive homes, substantial food, ample clothing, education and spiritual guidance. And the cost of their food and clothing alone increased 73% between 1941 and 1947. For other children in their own family circles, agencies of Catholic Charities provided a year-round recreation program. You've read of their teams and their boxing champions. Fine, clean, healthy kids. Who have given a good account of themselves in play and who will be heard from in more important arenas when they grow up. That's the aim of the Catholic Youth Organization program. And speaking of children, there were some who got into various degrees of trouble with the authorities. Several agencies of Catholic Charities are on the job day and night working with the courts, the police, the schools and the parish priests. They aim not only to anticipate and prevent these delusions with the law, but to get the youngsters back into paths that lead away from crime and toward useful living. I've touched only the high spots. Other speakers during this appeal will tell you stories that will stir your hearts. I just wish to remind you that the goal of the 29th Annual Appeal of Catholic Charities is $2.5 million. That's still a lot of money even in 1948. And Catholic Charities will need all of it to do its job in the coming year. The high cost of everything has placed an especially heavy burden on the agencies and institutions engaged in missions of mercy. Because their work has to be done now, immediately and not in some more favorable future. I have no doubt that that call to you will be answered. In the nearly 30 years that the New York Catholic Charities have been operating, its appeals to the generous heart of New York have always called forth a response worthy of their great and noble cause. That need is here, now, urgent and immediate. It must be met by the gifts of each one of us. And I know that it will be met in full.