Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. New Yorkers have come to City Hall Park this evening to watch one of the town's Christmas time traditions, the lighting of the city Christmas trees. During this program, taking place on the steps of City Hall, you'll hear Mayor F.H. Lagardia's annual Christmas message to his fellow citizens. And after the mayor's address, his son Eric is scheduled to press the switch that will light the 22 Christmas trees in the parks in all the five boroughs, including the 40-foot tree in front of City Hall. And now we take you to the front of the City Hall steps where we hear a musical program by the New York City Police Department, Glee Club. The Ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the four boroughs, the ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the four boroughs. The Ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the land. The Ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the land. The Ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the four boroughs, the ballhead, as I understand, is the bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the four boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs. The bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs. The bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs. The bravesty in all the boroughs, the bravesty in all the boroughs. The Ele藏 said unto you, below the borough. Theusanaraровáhest only did you imagine your own servant. In the last and Mana-énom there you are. The word Funny how you ø profile you have. We do it. We do it. CHOIR SINGS Now, ladies and gentlemen, we hear from Mr. William R. H. Latham, park engineer of the Department of Parks, who is representing Commissioner Moses. Annually, the park department takes pleasure in giving the city 22 Christmas trees in different parks throughout the city. In each of the five boroughs, there is a ceremony such as this going on right now. In each of the other four boroughs, the borough president is the principal speaker of the ceremony. Here in Manhattan, we have two principal speakers. The first, I take pleasure in introducing Borough President Stanley Isaacs. Mr. Latham, fellow citizens, I am proud of the chance to participate in this dignified ceremony dedicating the Christmas tree in City Hall Park, which will stand here as an emblem of beauty and of peace and goodwill. There are some who seem to think that we should not cut down our trees for these purposes, and they are so wrong. Our trees grow in the forests, and they're used for many purposes. Some were cut down to form the lofty masts of ships in the older days. Some are cut down to furnish timber for our houses. Some have the most humble purpose of being turned into pulp that makes paper to carry the spoken and the written word. But what loftier purpose can be served by this beautiful tree that stands here than to stand forth in City Hall Park as the emblem of our real civilization, as that emblem of peace and goodwill that we need to show to the peoples of this city that we are a peaceful nation, that our citizens from all lands are here living peacefully together, and that we breathe to the people of all the world peace and goodwill. Thank you, Mr. Isaacs. I now take pleasure in presenting the mayor, who will give his Christmas message to the people. In keeping the beautiful custom established by the Department of Parks, the mayor joins in extending to the people of the City of New York his personal wishes for a merry Christmas. It is quite proper that approaching the day of Christmas, Christmas, we pause from our labors for just a few moments, and give thought to the significance of Christmas, the day we will be observing on the few days. Christmas has a real significance to people of all creeds. Christmas has a real significance to people of all creeds. It signifies the mission of the Son of God on earth, a mission of brotherly love, of justice, of happiness, and of peace among all people. We are fortunate in this country that we have been better able, during the last few years, to give meaning to this lesson. We have been fortunate in being able to enjoy the blessing of peace. But we cannot be fully and completely happy if there are others in the world who are suffering because of war. We want to share the happiness of peace with all the people of the world. And let our Christmas prayers be dedicated to Him in the highest for world peace. To the people of the city of New York, may you enjoy your Christmas holidays. May that enjoyment be in the midst of your own families. May that enjoyment of peace with all the people of the world. May that we shall glorify Him in the highest and pray for peace toward men of good will. May that we shall glorify Him in the highest and pray for peace toward men of good will. May that we shall glorify Him in the highest and pray for peace toward men of good will. A merry Christmas to you all. May that we shall glorify Him in the highest and pray for peace toward men of good will. I think we can all add amen to that. The tree will now be lighted by Gene Lugardia, who will throw the large switch. Ladies and gentlemen, you're listening to the ceremony of the lighting of the Christmas trees being held on City Hall steps. They're just throwing the switch, which is in the center of a huge Christmas wreath in front of the steps. The mayor just finished speaking and just then the lights in this 40-foot tree with a beautiful star on top of it overlooking the City Hall Park were just lighted. At the same time, there are 22 trees in all covering the five boroughs of the city, all lit up at once as that switch was pressed. In Borough Hall in Brooklyn, Joyce Kilmer Park, Bronx, Kings, and the Borough Hall in Richmond Park. The mayor just posed in front of the wreath and in front of the switch with his little daughter after the pressing of the switch. And now I believe we're to listen to the Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. The Sacred Heart Boys Choir. Let the mercy of God Come, Lord, his blessed blood For such, the exultation will O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him Christ, O Lord O give the heart with rapture gloves To greet the holy night That gave the world his Christmas rose His king of love and life The lovely voice of my name The bright, the glorious love From time, right by so I became That we will do much love O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him Christ, the Lord O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him Christ, the Lord O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him O come, let us adore him The first of all, the angel is high. From the people's shelter, they fill how they lay. In the hills where they lay, walking in their sheep. On a bow in the night with so, so knee. Lo-o-o-o, lo-o-o, lo-o-o. Who is the king of Israel? Lo-o-o-o, lo-o-o, lo-o-o. Who is the king of Israel? League club will now present O Holy Night. O Holy Night. O Holy Night. The stars are brightly shining. It is the night of the dear Savior's birth. Long lay the world in sin and error pining Till he appeared and the soul felt his worth. A thrill of hope the weary world rejoices. For young the praise, a new and glorious Lord. All on your knees. All hear the angels' voices. A unbelievable day, a golden bell. We are also right when Christ was born. O night divine, O night, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. O night divine. O night divine, O night divine. heard the boys' choir and the police department glee club. And just at this moment, ladies and gentlemen, from the 40-foot tree across the park, there appeared a vision. It's Santa Claus. And the park department band at the foot of the Christmas tree playing Jingle Bells, we return you now to our studios in the municipal building. In the middle of the district's, the god beautiful girls take some years, as a kingdom as a teammate and the party家's in the first position, and rain the world has a beautiful state that she this year, in the next building, and then不能 remember the boys, who was the seventh-year-old camp that stood for us. Which is like the main algorithm in the middle 야court. Especially once, a new animal set for theai. The record is a beautiful, like a elementary school, a 53-year-old education board tenets, or a 22-year-old marketing conferring, like给我 do it in the middle of twoORD trainers. This is a頻 master's program. The third perceptual Türk самомels that you can do