Your City Station now presents by transcription another important report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the City Department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Frederick H. Mealen, Commissioner of Public Works and Director of the Public Works Emergency Division of Civil Defense. And now, to introduce this, the sixth of these reports on civil defense. Here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, everyone. I am happy to bring you additional information on the progress of our civil defense plans. Tonight, I'm going to ask Public Works Commissioner Zermielin to give us some of the highlights of his department's role in our defense organization. Through these informal talks, we hope to keep the public well posted on the steps we are taking for their protection. Commissioner Zermielin, because even the normal functions of your office are so vital to the very life of the city, I wish you would outline some of these in relation to civil defense. Well, Commissioner Wallander, while it would be impossible within the limited time available to us now to describe all of the complex functions of the Department of Public Works, I think they could best be summarized by pointing out that our department is the engineering arm of the city and is charged with the design, construction, and maintenance of city-owned buildings, bridges, and sewage treatment plants. These structures are worth more than a billion dollars, and their operation and maintenance makes my department the greatest municipal housekeeper in the world. We have 62 public buildings, which house some 81 governmental agencies, and have a traffic load of better than 29 million people per year. During emergency periods, these buildings would have to be placed upon a 24-hour-a-day operation. We also maintain and operate all of the city's 49 toll-free bridges, which are used by approximately 3 million people each day. The importance of these bridges for evacuation in the event of an enemy attack should be obvious to everyone. The transportation of food and other necessities of life depend on the proper functioning of these bridges. Our 13 sewage treatment plants and our interceptor sewers handle more than 500 million gallons of city liquid wastes each day. Every precaution, therefore, is being taken to prevent sabotage and to restore normal operation of these plants should service be disrupted by an enemy attack. Well, Commissioner Zemillon, you certainly have a lot to do in your own department under normal conditions. In addition to these functions of your own department, I have placed under your jurisdiction other city departments and agencies to be coordinated into a city-wide defense organization. Will you report on what has been done along these lines? Well, Commissioner, at your direction, we have set up the Public Works Emergency Division, which includes the borough works departments of all five borough presidents, the departments of sanitation, housing and buildings, water supply, gas and electricity, parks, and marine and aviation. In addition, we have also established a liaison with the Port of New York Authority and the Tribor Bridge and Tunnel Authority for the purpose of providing prompt mutual assistance. We have also enrolled into our Public Works Emergency Division the utility companies. These include, of course, the Consolidated Edison and its associated companies, the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, the New York and Richmond Gas Company, the Queensborough Gas and Electric Company, the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company, and the Kings County Lighting Company. We have also enrolled in contractors in the heavy construction field whose equipment and personnel would be made available in emergencies. Well, Commissioner Zemil, at this point, I think we ought to tell our listening audience the main functions of the Public Works Emergency Division. Well, Commissioner, our division will be charged with the removal of debris and unsafe structures from the streets in order to allow emergency vehicles to reach the scene of damage and to expedite the removal of injured. It will also make emergency shutoffs of broken water, gas, steam mains, and other broken house services. Heavy rescue work, which requires shoring, bracing, and tunneling, also would be handled by our division. We would also be responsible for the emergency repair of streets, sewers, and utilities. Street repairs are normally made by the office of the borough president in each borough. That is why we have a representative from the borough works department of each borough president in our public works emergency division in order that we may pool our equipment and consolidate our efforts wherever they may be needed on a citywide basis. If and when authorized, our division will design and construct public shelters, illumination control needed for blackouts will be vested in the Department of Water Supply, Gas, and Electricity under our coordination. In cooperation with the Health Emergency Division, our public works organization will assist in the decontamination of bombed areas. For example, when the Health Department has determined what contamination exists in a bombed area, our division will help decontaminate by flushing with water, spraying with liquid neutralizers, covering with sand and chemical mixtures, and other techniques being developed particularly in relation to atomic warfare. Well, that's very interesting, Commissioner Zemelin. It can easily be seen that a tremendous amount of equipment and personnel will be required for all of these functions. Suppose you tell us now what progress has been made to determine what equipment and personnel will be available for defense in case of attack. Well, we have already underway probably the largest inventory of equipment, tools, and supplies ever undertaken in this city. Privately owned equipment is being registered, as well as equipment in the possession of the cooperating city departments. We are breaking this inventory down into various categories and by localities within wherein this equipment is kept. the inventory will be kept up to date by postcard notices and periodic telephone contacts whenever registered equipment is moved to a new location. Questionnaires have been sent to all agencies and contractors who have the type of equipment that could be used in Public Works Emergency Division. All of this inventory information is being transferred to IBM accounting cards which will be automatically tabulated and broken down into lists of various classes of equipment. Copies of these breakdown lists will be supplied to each borough office for the purpose of arranging a system of mutual aid between the boroughs. everything from large crane equipped mobile units right down to the common pick and shovel will be listed. Approximately 300 contractors Commissioner have already been canvassed and are cooperating admirably in this work. Well that's fine. I'm sure our listeners as well as ourselves all those connected with the defense organization are glad to hear that private industry is cooperating in our preparations to mobilize equipment for emergency divisions. Now Commissioner Zermielin how about personnel? Well a similar survey is being made to determine what personnel particularly among engineers architects construction superintendents skilled and unskilled labor that will be available for emergency work in our division. For the moment however we are using the personnel of the various city departments. In the event of an emergency volunteers will be recruited from outside sources. Within our own city departments we are also registering all our construction superintendents foremen machine operators chauffeurs mechanics skilled and unskilled laborers of every and various classifications. These employees will report on call to prearranged mobilization points usually corporation or contractor's yards which will be designated later. We are also preparing plans to provide emergency transportation to these mobilization points. Then commissioner report centers will be established to cover New York area and each center will be manned by one or more emergency division field officers. Their duty will be to survey the situation in the field and report to the borough control center as to what equipment and personnel is needed at any particular place. The borough control center will review the request and direct the movement of the equipment from the mobilization points. And then the field officers will usually be trained engineers or experienced construction superintendents. They will cooperate and coordinate and supervise all equipment in the field. A citywide control center, of course, will be established to take over the work of any borough control center that might possibly be made inoperative by the emergency. Planning and work involved in setting up the various control centers and report centers will be undertaken by my own department, the Department of Public Works. Well, that's fine. Now, some of our listeners in this series have inquired about the fixed air rate alarm sirens and when they will be finally affixed to buildings or other appearances. Your division was instructed to provide these sirens. Now, will you tell us what the status of this important phase of our program is? Commissioner, we actually are installing 200 of these sirens right now. Others, which are used, which were used during the last war, are being reconditioned to ensure maximum efficiency. The specifications are being prepared for the purchase of new sirens. And engineers of my department are presently testing new types of sirens in an effort to get the best and the latest type of air raid alarm. Well, Commissioner Zumil, I'm sure that we're all glad to hear about this. It certainly is welcome news, I'm sure, to the people of our city. Obviously, the work of your division will require a considerable amount of organization on a well-integrated and citywide basis. How is this being done? Well, we have already completed an organization along military lines, wherein key personnel has been instructed as to what their functions are to be and to whom they are directly responsible. I have already appointed deputy directors who will be members of the director's advisory and policymaking staff. board. These deputy directors include the borough works commissioners in each borough. A deputy director representing the utility companies and a deputy director representing private contractors also will serve on the emergency division advisory and policymaking staff. board. And then, in addition, five borough directors have been appointed as top public works emergency division representatives in each borough. They, in turn, will appoint assistant directors who will be in charge of the men and equipment of each cooperating group or agency. committee. And to further coordinate the preparation of the necessary records, charts, plans, instructions, training manuals, reports, and the like, I have already appointed a coordinator and a deputy coordinator who are engineers in my department and who are devoting full time to this defense program. Thank you very much, Commissioner Zemelin. And to our listening audience, I hope that from this discussion on another phase in our civil defense program, you will be better informed on the steps being taken by acting mayor of Vincent Impeleteri and this administration for your protection. This series is intended to enlighten and not alarm the people of our city. I think that you will agree that calm, orderly, and careful planning is the best approach to ensure adequate civil defense. It is our fervent hope that the horrible emergencies of war will never occur, but I feel sure you will readily agree that in the light of our international situation, we must be prepared for any eventuality. You have been listening to the sixth in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which civilian defense director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City civil defense organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his transcribed report this evening was Commissioner Frederick Zermielin of the Department of Public Works, director of the Public Works Emergency Division of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening, at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another report on civil defense. This is the municipal broadcasting system.