Becky Ryer, freelance writer, author of the current children's book, My Mother is the Most Beautiful Woman in the World, comes to you each Tuesday morning at this time with a distinguished guest to talk about how to have fun with your children in this wonderful city of ours. Today, Mrs. Ryer brings you a special New Year's Day program. Mrs. Ryer. Good morning, city mothers. Happy New Year to you and all your families. Today is the first day of 1946. Last night, New Year's Eve, as we sang, ring out the old, ring in the new, we had a sense of prophecy and destiny. Today we know we are ushering in a new era, but we can't quite understand the nature of it. We stand on the threshold of the atomic age. We're about to leap a thousand years into the future. All of us want to know, what next? What does the future hold for us? How shall we prepare ourselves to meet the circumstances and facts of the new world? I think all of us are full of questions and few of us, if any, know the answers. Before the Industrial Revolution of little more than a hundred years ago, man lived all over the world at the same quiet, biblical, pastoral pace. Man literally created by the sweat of his brow everything he needed to keep his body covered and fed. With the advent of steam and electricity, man made one of his thousand-year leaps. The whirr and hum of spinning, speeding wheels mark that change. Ships, trains, airplanes, tractors, steel smelters, automobiles, flour mills, garment factories. A few random words. But they create instant images of our fast-tempo machine age. Accelerate that tempo beyond any boundary the mind can conceive. And you have the age we go forth to meet, the atomic age. One place in New York stands ready to do its part, to present and interpret the miracles of the world we live in. That is the Museum of Science and Industry. We're very lucky to have with us today, once again on this program, Mr. Clinton Thomas, publicity director of the Museum of Science and Industry. I'm sure the world of the future holds no threat to Mr. Thomas. He already spends his days and evenings in a super-dynamic where of activity. The museum is always jam-packed with eager, curious people. Mr. Thomas is here, there, everywhere. As if he flies from point to point. No doubt in the world of tomorrow, he will have some sort of mechanical wings, or go wafting off on a puff of atom. Mr. Thomas, do you mind beginning by refreshing our minds as to exactly where is the Museum of Science and Industry? Now, Mrs. Reier, I thought everyone knew the Museum of Science and Industry is at 30 Rockefeller Center. Let's be more explicit than that, Mr. Thomas. I bet more people get lost each day around Rockefeller Center than anywhere in New York, but they're ashamed to admit it. To please you, Mrs. Reier, the museum is in the RCA building on 6th Avenue between 49th and 50th Street. Once you come in the door, you can't miss it. We are on the ground floor. There's no mistaking the museum. Crowded as Radio City and Rockefeller Center are, the museum seems to be the magnet for boys and girls of all ages. They certainly are excited and absorbed by everything they look at. It's fun just to watch them. There's no doubt about kids having a good time in our museum. They keep coming again and still again. Any admission charges? Yes, Mrs. Reier, a small fee. What are your hours? 10 in the morning to 10 o'clock in the evening. Open every day, Sundays and holidays. Never close. That's wonderful. What I like about your museum, or one of the many things I like, is that it is open in the evenings, which gives fathers a chance to come with their older children and gives those of us who work for a living a chance to come when we are free. A lot of fathers come with their children. Evenings are our busiest time. People certainly take advantage of those evening hours. Mr. Thomas, since everyone is science-hungry these days, will you explain the purpose of your museum? Gladly. The purpose of the museum is to present a comprehensive view of the development of scientific and industrial skills to indicate clearly that their present state is but the latest step in a continually expanding evolution. How do you demonstrate your purpose? We have a great many permanent exhibits, partially or wholly supported by industry. Then we have constantly changing feature exhibits of current and news interests. Like the current exhibit of naval research and inventions. I think all New Yorkers who are curious and even a little fearful of the future will find this exhibit fascinating and thrilling. Well, of course we arranged to have it because we think there is a great story in it. I was impressed by the large legends atop the walls, which gets you right into the spirit of the gigantic task of research that has been done, is progressing, is yet to be done. I suppose you mean the keynote signs that say, what next? In this atomic electronic era, anything is possible. Yesterday's far-fetched dreams are today's facts. The future holds the promise of immeasurably greater achievements. I particularly like the scientists including a note of warning, especially the one that said, scientific research and inventions have given awesome power to man. He must choose now between two eventualities, worldwide welfare or universal destruction. Which way will he turn? I don't think any of us can speculate. We can only hope to learn. Don't you think the Navy exhibit is pretty comprehensive? It takes careful looking at. There are demonstrations and exhibits of radar, atomic power, jet propulsion, guided missiles, and representative achievements of the Special Devices Division of the Naval Research Laboratory and the Office of Scientific Research and Development. I want to emphasize the many peacetime benefits from this research. Rear Admiral Bowen, Director of the Office of Research and Inventions of the Navy, emphasized that one of the prime purposes of this exhibit was to acquaint the public with what effect these discoveries will have on post-war civilian life. Let's take a quick tour around the exhibit, Mr. Thomas. All right. I guess we better start with the huge three-dimensional figure over the entrance stairway. This is the structure of an atom of uranium-235. This single representation of the atom is magnified over 275 billion times. Let me take it slowly. That representation of the atom is magnified 275 billion times. I guess we're already in the atomic age when we talk so casually in billions. The mind has to get used to it. They line up and gaze at that figure. It shows the relationship of the various atomic units to each other. The bombardment, the struggle of these atomic units creates the energy that was used to make the atomic bomb. As it hangs suspended there at your museum, it looks like something out of this world. It's in this world, all right, but needing a lot more research done on it. But when we really master it, and the scientists seem to believe we will, the possibilities are beyond simple calculation. Just think, Mrs. Reier, one pound of uranium-235 has enough energy to take the place of 50 million pounds of coal. By its controlled use, any nation can revolutionize its whole economy. It's the peacetime possibilities that intrigue me. One of the Navy men at the exhibit was telling me that atomic energy will eventually be flying our planes, driving our locomotives, freezing our food, warming our houses. Right now, they tell me, research by the government is going on as to the atomic energy's value to medicine, cancer cure, tuberculosis, and infantile paralysis cures. They all seem confident that extensive research will find the way. The Navy man also told me that much of the non-military research was of a medical nature. This Navy exhibit at the museum has some important medical things to show. You mean the sick bay aboard a cruiser, and what miracles are already being accomplished, don't you, Mr. Thomas? Just that. What could be more dramatic than the exhibit of how blood plasma travels from the United States to combat areas, or the special refrigerators for transporting whole blood? You know, it's gruesome, but also wonderful. The display of prosthetics, the professional word for model arms, legs, hands, feet, noses, eyes, ears, and teeth. They have done wonders with them. That cosmetic hand made of plastics and rubber, it has the color, tone, and warmth of skin texture, and they improve on them every day. We've hardly touched upon the radar exhibits, but I was so determined to concentrate on peacetime benefits. Well, how would you like to fly, or go on an ocean-going steamer with a definite assurance that just can't get lost? Radar will do that for you. Then there's the shark chaser exhibit, a little cake that might be soap, and presto, guaranteed to keep the sharks away. The men in the Pacific area use them on all life jackets. Now fishermen can have them for shark-infested areas. There is no reason why the rain repellent and antifogging compound used for plane windshields should not be made available to automobile drivers. We have a demonstration of how that works at the Navy exhibit. Then there are all the different firefighting methods improved during the war. I suppose I really owe it to the mothers and the boys to tell them this Navy exhibit at the museum is just full of weapons and war devices that will fascinate them. Oh, the girls may like to stop by and see the flak curtain exhibit that protects plane crews from flying fragments. The material in one of those curtains would make 240 pairs of nylon stockings. Someday, not too far distant. Let's hope we'll have nylon stockings and a durable piece. We have time for about one more highlight at the Navy show. Which shall it be, Mr. Thomas? There is no doubt about which it should be. The communications motoring device. This is a recording device used to keep a complete record of all words passed between the pilot and the control tower. At the museum, we have frequent demonstrations. We let an onlooker, a guest, communicate with the control tower, and in hardly any time, back comes the transcription of the conversation. That's always a thrill. As usual, I have a wonderful time at your museum, and hate to tear myself away. But I'm afraid our time is really about up. Mr. Thomas, do you have any message for our listeners on WNYC as to how they can prepare themselves and their children for the world of tomorrow, for the atomic age? I don't have a message exactly, but I have a few ideas. I think a person with some scientific education is better prepared, more able to understand what is meant. By the catchwords, world of tomorrow. They are more able to visualize and imagine what they would like to see invented and discovered. Our New York high schools give an excellent course in physics and chemistry, a good basic knowledge which can cope with any difficulty in understanding scientific research. I believe, too, that we must all keep, help create more interest in scientific study, both at school and in other ways. We try to interpret, stimulate, and supplement scientific study at the Museum of Science and Industry. Thank you, Mrs. Ryer, for asking me to be with you today. We extend a cordial welcome to the listeners of WNYC to come to our museum frequently throughout the year and to our old friends, whom we hope to see a lot of again. Happy New Year to you all. Thank you, Mr. Thomas, for coming to us today and helping us glimpse the world of tomorrow. We're all grateful to you indeed, and many of us will come to see the current Navy exhibit at the Museum of Science and Industry. And now, dear listeners, a very Happy New Year to you all. Let us all hope together that we may find ways of living up to our wonderful future opportunity. Next week, our guest will be Mr. Gordon C. Atwater, Chairman of the Department of Astronomy and Curator of the Planetarium. This is Becky Ryer saying Happy New Year to you all and goodbye till Tuesday. Thank you, Becky Ryer. Ladies and gentlemen, you just listened to Becky Ryer, freelance writer, author of the current children's book My Mother is the Most Beautiful Woman in the World, and she interviewed today Mr. Clinton Thomas, press representative of the Museum of Science and Industry in Rockefeller Center. These programs are presented each Tuesday morning. This program today was transcribed early in the week to make this morning's program possible. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
