Good afternoon from the White House grounds in Washington. The President of the United States is about to light the National Community Christmas Tree. This year's ceremony follows the traditional pattern and will include the President in his Christmas message, Chief Justice Belitha J. Laws of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, who is National Chairman and Master of Ceremonies this afternoon, the United States Marine Band under the direction of Captain William F. Santelman, the National Press Club Chorus directed by Reynolds Ware and Raft, representatives of the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts presenting greetings to the President and First Lady, and other special features. The President has already arrived. He's shaken hands with his special guest veterans from nearby service hospitals, and now Chief Justice Belitha J. Laws is just about to open this afternoon ceremonies, and the next voice you hear will be that of Justice Laws. He now stands facing the audience of some several thousand gathered here on the White House lawn. Here's Justice Laws. We now have the invocation by the Reverend Peter Marshall. Almighty God, our Father in Heaven, who did so love the world as to give Thine only begotten Son to be its Savior, bless us, we pray, in this simple service. As we light this tree, may it remind us of the light that came into the world, the light which the world could not master or ever put out, the light that shone in the face and in the spirit of Jesus Christ, whose birth we celebrate. May the spirit of Christmas that softens our hearts and kindles our love, linger with us throughout the year. As the spell, the beauty and the mystery of this holy season steals into our hearts and our homes, may it remind us of the angels' song and the message they sang, the message our torn and troubled world needs so much. Because of his great love for all men, may we be given grace to love him more that we might learn how to love one another. So may our hearts and minds express this Christmas a spirit that will please and honor him, and make the angels rejoice that men have not forgotten the song they sang, nor human hearts surrendered the hope they brought. May the wise men of the West be willing to follow the wise men of the East, in coming to him who is the Prince of Peace, that being in right relations with God, they might then establish right relations with their fellow men. God bless us everyone, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this large gathering on the lawn of the White House at Washington, here to participate in a program of lighting the National Community Christmas Tree. In this gathering are men and women and boys and girls of every walk of life. As special guests of honor, there are present wounded veterans of the armed forces, who but a few months ago gave valiantly their full share of devotion to the nation. The President of the United States is here. All have laid aside their burdens to join in this great celebration. These celebrations began in 1923 and have been carried forward each year since. They have been held in the fair days of peace and have prevailed in the dark days of war. The Christmas tree, evergreen and full of sturdy life in all seasons, is essentially related to the home. And the tree we are about to illuminate in the deepening shadows of this Christmas Eve, is related to the home of our President. We rejoice to have him here to participate with his neighbors of the District of Columbia, and by means of the airwaves with his neighbors throughout the United States. This celebration is not the creation of a single individual or a single organization. It was conceived by community efforts. This year it is sponsored and has been elaborately planned by five organizations. The District of Columbia Recreation Board, the American Forestry Association, the Electrical Institute of Washington, the Office of National Capital Parks of the Department of the Interior, and the Greater National Capital Committee. Since 1929 the ceremonies have been broadcast to all parts of our country. And during the war years were broadcast to many parts of the world. The spirit of the event has spread widely. And now there are celebrations in thousands of other communities, sending forth messages of glory to God and goodwill toward men. The surroundings here are beautiful. The executive mansion looms, quite ungraceful, in a setting within an expansive green lawn, which nurtures many trees and shrubs. The musicians of the Marine Band in colorful uniforms, holding their bright, shiny instruments. We see carol singers, veterans in uniform, boy and girl scouts. We see hundreds of citizens. Then we see the outline of a great oriental spruce tree, of symmetrical lines, decorated by artists of rare ability and taste. This is an occasion when president and citizens unite as one in the spirit of Christmas, and move from the mundane themes of life to the lofty heights of exaltation and adulation. We are glad to be here and to express our thanks for a world which now is beating its swords into plowshares, and its spears into pruning hooks. And now we have greetings of the people of Washington, to our president who is here, and also to Mrs. Truman. The first greeting is to be presented by Mary Ann Sterling, Troop 100, Girl Scouts of the District of Columbia. Ms. Sterling. Mr. President, the girls of the District of Columbia, and the girls of the entire nation, wish me to extend to you, to Mrs. Truman and to Miss Margaret Truman, our best wishes for your happy Christmas. Also, we would like you to convey to your mother, Mrs. Martha Truman, our admiration and our sincere greetings of the season. Throughout the coming year, we will try to pattern our lives after the golden rule of neighborliness, for those at home and for those abroad. We wish to take our place among the steadfasts who are striving that all may know true peace on earth, good will toward men. The greetings from the Girl Scouts, now Justice Laws again. May I now present to you, Douglas Shanklin, Eagle Scout, 223 Boy Scouts of National Capital Area Council. Douglas Shanklin. Mr. President, I have been chosen to represent the Boy Scouts of America and the youth of America in this ceremony. It is the unanimous belief of the Boy Scouts that we can best serve you in your fight to sustain the peace by applying to our daily lives the principles of the Scout Open Law. We pledge our loyalty to you and wholeheartedly extend to you our best wishes for a very Merry Christmas and a most prosperous New Year. We now present Two Christmas Carols by the National Press Club Chorus directed by Dr. Reinold Werenrath accompanied by Mrs. Gertrude Mogbrae. The pieces will be Go Tell It to the Mountain and Here We Come a Wassailing. Go Tell It to the Mountain Go Tell it on the Mountain Over the hills and everywhere Go Tell it on the Mountain That Jesus' right is born Go Tell it on the mountain The mountain that Jesus Christ is born. Oh, tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. Oh, tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is born. While shepherds kept their washing, for silence lost by night. Behold, throughout the heavens, there shone a holy sight. Oh, tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. Oh, tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is born. Down in the lonely manger, our humble Christ was born. And God sent us a salvation, that blessed Christmas morn. Oh, tell it on the mountain, over the hills and everywhere. Oh, tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is born. Oh, tell it on the mountain, that Jesus Christ is born. Here we come, a-wastling among the leaves of green. Here we come, a-wandering so fair to be seen. Love and joy come to you, and to you your what's so true. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. We are not daily beggars that begs from door to door. But we are neighbor children from you as seen before. Love and joy come to you and send you a happy new year. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. God bless you and send you a happy new year. God bless the master of this house, the mistress of old. And all the little children that round the table go. And all your kids and kinfolk that swells over and near. We win you a merry Christmas and a happy new year. Love and joy come to you and to you your what's so true. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. And God bless you and send you a happy new year. O watch a day, O watch a day, O watch a day. Here we come, here we come. The carol's concluded. In just a moment now, Chief Justice Belize-Lawes will introduce the President of the United States, and the Christmas tree will be lighted. We have now reached the highlight of this occasion. There will now be the lighting of the living community Christmas tree by the President of the United States, followed by the President's Christmas greeting to the nation. The next voice you will hear presenting a greeting to you will be that of President Truman. Ah, there go the lights now. As you hear those chimes, it signals the lighting of the national community Christmas tree here on the White House lawn. It's a large oriental spruce standing some 30 feet high, just a few feet to the right of the speaker stand. And in just a moment, the President, after getting a good look at the tree himself, will begin his Christmas message to the nation. As Mayor of the City of New York, and personally, I consider it a great honor to add my voice to this appeal. Thank you, Mayor Aguirre. And now back again to the boys of the St. Vincent Ferrer Choir, in their closing number. Holy Night, Holy Night, Holy Night, Holy Night. And so do the strains of Holy Night, the traditional Christmas hymn. We take leave of this inspiringly beautiful party in the grand ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria. Just imagine, the little foundling tops of New York City being faded here by the Mayor of the City of New York, attending as he did so humbly, the birthday party, I beg your pardon, the Christmas party, of Cardinal Francis Spellman, to these youngsters of the New York Foundling Hospital and institution here within the gates of our city. The choir music that you have heard is the Boys Choir, the Chancel Choir of the Church of St. Vincent Ferrer, under the direction of Professor Constantino Jan. And so with this note of Christmas, your microphones leave the Waldorf Astoria and return to the Municipal Building. The President is now gazing at the tree, there's a big smile on his face and I think he's about to begin his talk. He's looking out at the crowd of several thousand and he speaks. Mr. Chief Justice Laws, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow citizens everywhere. Again, our thoughts and aspirations and the hopes of future years turned to a little town in the hills of Judea, where on a winter's night two thousand years ago the prophecy of Isaiah was fulfilled. Shepherds keeping the watch by night over their flock heard the glad tidings of great joy from the angels of the Lord saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, good will toward men. The message of Bethlehem best sums up our hopes tonight. If we as a nation and the other nations of the world will accept it, the star of faith will guide us into the place of peace, as it did the shepherds on that day of Christ's birth long ago. I'm sorry to say all is not harmony in the world today. We have found that it is easier for men to die together on the field of battle than it is for them to live together at home in peace. But those who died have died in vain. If some measure at least, if in some measure at least, we shall not preserve for the peace that spiritual unity in which we won the war. The problems facing the United Nations, the world's hope for peace, would overwhelm faint hearts. But we, as we continue to labor for an enduring peace through that great organization, must remember that the world was not created in a day. We shall find strength and courage at this Christmas time, because so brave a beginning has been made. So with faith and courage, we shall work to hasten the day when the sword is replaced by the plowshare and nations do not learn war anymore. Selfishness and greed, individual or national, cause most of our troubles. We have found that moment, inscreve and content on matалы and their inner affairs by the way. heroes from holy waters by the Blue Cross. He remembered that we have made much of our neighbor's perspective. His message was not given we should remember. If this shifted forward, he has a written word about when the brand came out. Our story was not waited, but the best day we were Pascal for the most part of his own. He said, therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you. Do ye even so to them. For this is the law and the profits. Through all the centuries since he spake, history has vindicated his teaching. In this great country of ours has been demonstrated the fundamental unity of Christianity and democracy. Under our heritage of freedom, for everyone on equal terms, we also share the responsibilities of government. Our support of individual freedom, free speech, free schools, free press, and a free conscience transcends all our differences. Although we may not hope for a new heaven and a new earth in our day and generation, we may strive with undaunted faith and courage to achieve in the present some measure of that unity with which this nation's sons and the sons of our allies went forth to win the war. We have this glorious land not because of a particular religious faith, not because our ancestors sailed from a particular foreign port. We have our unique national heritage because of a common aspiration to be free and because of our purpose to achieve for ourselves and for our children the good things of life which the Christ declared he came to give to all mankind. We have made a good start toward peace in the world. Ahead of us lies the larger task of making that peace secure. The progress we have made gives hope that in the coming year we shall reach our goal. May 1947, entitle us to the benediction of the Master. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Because of what we have achieved for peace, and because of all the promise that our future holds, I say to all my countrymen everywhere, Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. And may God bless you all. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas. The President of the United States has given his Christmas greeting to the nation, and the program continues. You shall now be favored with a cornet solo, Cantique de Noel, by musician Edward Masters of the United States Marine Band. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You shall again be favored by carol, by the choristers, the national press club chorus, break forth, oh, beauteous, heavenly light, by Bach, accompanied by the Marine Band. Be careful, bring the strength of pride, but hear the angels warning. Tis like the weak in infancy, our confidence and joy shall be. The power of Satan's breaking, our peace eternal breaking. The power of Satan's breaking, our peace eternal breaking. O come, all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant. O come ye, O come ye to every hand. Come and behold him, for the king of Asia. O come, let us adore him. O come, let us adore him. O come, let us adore him. O come, let us adore him. The benediction will be pronounced by Right Reverend Monsignor John J. Riley. Father Riley. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Our Father who art in heaven, bless this gathering here tonight, which has come together in the spirit of acknowledgement. Christmas fills us with a sense of our own importance. For man took on a new dignity, and human life became more precious. And human hate went out of fashion, when a woman wrapped in silence, wrapped her tiny babe in swaddling clothes. Help us to keep alive the startling truth that a handful of straw can be more potent than an iron fist. Grant that we may always recognize the message of the first Christmas, when the heavens shook with a prayer for peace, glory to God, and peace for men. Bless and guide the President of our beloved United States, in his attempt to fashion the peace, that you may have your glory, that we may have our peace. All this we ask for your glory, and the glory of that divine Son of yours, the Babe of Bethlehem, and the earnest hope that each one of us will one day see what none of us has ever seen, the benediction of your own smile. Amen. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Thank you.