Queen's College, youngest of New York City's municipal colleges, brings you the first in a series of eight broadcasts in celebration of the completion of the first four years of the college and its first commencement to be held June of this year. Today we hear first from Professor Kimball Young, chairman of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology, who is one of the country's leading social psychologists. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Young. It is the policy of Queen's College to make its services available to the community as a whole and not to confine its attention to the needs of its particular student body. In harmony with this plan, we are beginning a new series of talks on certain crucial problems in our contemporary American society. We take it for granted that our function in giving these talks is not only to provide information, but to help guide people in the intelligent formation of their opinions. The first half of the present series has been prepared and will be presented by members of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology of Queen's College. These four talks represent certain particularly pressing difficulties of our own time. This morning we are to hear a discussion of Negro problems in America. Next week, Dr. Paul W. Tappan will tell you something about delinquency and crime in our cities. In the third talk, the present speaker will take up the topic of public opinion formation in these days of national and international emergency. The sociology series will close with a discussion by Dr. George Simpson of some important factors in our future population policy in America. Our speaker this morning, Dr. Hortense Powdermaker, is one of the world's leading anthropologists. On one of her earlier field trips, she spent two years in studying some of the native tribes in Oceania, a region very much in the news now. Her book, Life in Lesu, reports her experiences there. Upon her return to this country, she spent two years in rural Mississippi, investigating the life of Negro families in that state. The results of this study are ably represented in her volume, After Freedom, published in 1939. This book immediately took its place in the forefront of important works dealing with the American Negro. We are indeed fortunate to have her with us. Dr. Powdermaker. The problems of Negro people are basically no different from the problems of white people. The fundamental problem of the Negro is to find security, economic and emotional security. And this is the problem for all human beings, whether they are white or yellow or brown or black. To date, no group of people have completely solved this problem. But the Negroes have more difficulty than the whites in their pursuit of this dual security. Let us consider first its economic aspects. What are the special difficulties which the Negro faces in his search for economic security? We must note the fact that the middle and upper classes among Negroes are smaller than the equivalent white classes, and that the Negro lower class is much larger proportionately than the white one. So that we are dealing with the problem of a people who are, on the whole, quite far down on the economic ladder. Behind them is the tradition of slavery in the Old South. After slavery came underpaid agricultural work for most of them. Today the agricultural system in the South is declining. It is difficult for anyone, landlord or sharecropper, to make anything from the semi-feudalistic system, which has outlived its usefulness on the cotton plantation. The erstwhile tenant can migrate to cities, northern or southern, or he may try to buy a small farm of his own. The last plan rarely works out because of the Negro's lack of capital, his difficulties in getting credit, and the fact that only the least fertile land is available to him. Immediately after the Civil War, before the extensive use of labor-saving machinery on the farm, and when good land was available and cheap, it was easier for the Negro to buy his 40 acres than it is today. Now he tends to migrate to the city. Between 1920 and 1930, over a million Negroes deserted rural occupations for urban ones. In the city, the Negro faces the problem of all unskilled workers, and about 75% of the Negro workers are unskilled. This is the problem of rapidity of industrial change, and the replacing of unskilled workers by machinery and a few skilled workers. Laundering, formerly done mostly by hand and by colored women, is now being done by machinery and by whites. The colored washerwoman has been replaced by the washing machine, in the commercial laundry and in the home. And the problem of the unskilled Negro worker is accentuated by his color. A large number of jobs are closed to him, and he does not have the same opportunity to rise from an unskilled position to a skilled one, as does the white man. Traditions, fear of competition, and mythical beliefs among whites about the capabilities of the Negro are responsible for this limitation of his field of employment. And all three of these factors are interrelated. Tradition has said that certain jobs are white jobs. Tradition has held on to certain mythical beliefs that the Negro is irresponsible, is lazy, and mentally inferior to whites. All scientific research has disproved these traditional beliefs that the Negro is different psychologically from the whites. There are lazy and shiftless Negroes, and there are lazy and shiftless whites. There are extremely industrious and energetic people in both groups. Such equality as the acceptance of responsibility is not determined by the color of skin. But it provides a convenient excuse for white men who are afraid of losing their jobs to Negro competitors. A number of labor unions in their practice either restrict or do not encourage Negro membership. This is tantamount to exclusion from those trades which the particular union controls. Ironically, certain positions which were formerly considered Negro jobs have become white jobs. Barbering is one of these. During a Depression, the Negro suffers more than the white man. Studies of unemployment made in 1930 show that twice as many Negroes as native-born whites were totally unemployed. The question of willingness or ability to work does not enter into the picture. There are simply fewer jobs for Negroes because white people are prejudiced against their having these jobs. In professional positions such as teaching, social work, and journalism, the employment possibilities are also unfavorable to the Negro. In the South, where segregation persists, there are more jobs for the colored teacher because of the segregated schools. In the North, the percentage of colored professional people who can find positions in institutions controlled by whites is infinitesimally small. In a very few professions such as that of orchestras playing jazz, the Negro has an advantage. Against these, however, are the hundreds where his number is strictly limited. Putting it very plainly, for the unskilled Negro worker, for the skilled Negro worker, and for the professionally trained Negro, there are fewer jobs than for whites of equivalent status. On the basic problem of earning his living, the Negro has more difficulties than his white fellow American. Difficulties not due to any lack of ability or initiative, but to prejudices, which are against the spirit of one of America's most fundamental tenets, namely, equal opportunity for all. We began by saying that the problem of security is a double-edged one. Men do not live by bread alone. From time immemorial, men have struggled for something else besides survival. What is it that men want in addition to bread? They want love, affection, and the respect of their fellow men. Our religion and culture have emphasized the value of the individual. Each man and woman wants some appreciation of himself. But what happens to the Negro? Most white people lump all Negroes together as a single homogeneous group, and never consider the wide range of class and individual differences. The average white person thinks that all Negroes are like one or two unrepresentative people he may have come in contact with, or like a stereotype seen in the movies. The same white person would be horrified if the Caucasian race was judged by the casual acquaintance with one housemaid, or a stevedore portrayed on the screen. There is something basically insulting about the ignoring of individual traits in a society that presumably places so much value on them. A Negro, like everyone else, wishes to be judged for himself, on the basis of his personality and his ability, rather than because of some mythical and fictitious beliefs about his group. It would be as if we lumped all brunettes together as more intelligent or less aggressive than blondes, and then refused to pay any attention to individual brunettes or blondes to see if our theory was true. In the South, the symbols of respect are consistently denied the Negro. The courtesy terms of Mr. or Mrs. or Miss are withheld. Every Negro, regardless of his education or wealth, is called by his first name, which relegates him to a servant status. If he is allowed in a theatre, he must sit in a special and inferior part of the house. He will pay the same fare on a train, but will occupy separate and worse quarters. He is allowed to live only in certain parts of town. He must eat in colored restaurants. In the North, while we do not have for the most part any legal segregation, we have a psychological one. The Negro cannot live anywhere he pleases, even in the most enlightened parts of the North. Certain sections, the worst ones, are reserved for him and at high rents. There are problems connected with the use of swimming pools, restaurants, and hotels all over the North. No matter how educated or wealthy a Negro may be, he is not free to enter any hotel or restaurant he pleases. What does all this boil down to? In countless ways, the Negro is made to feel unwelcome, that he does not belong. This, together with the denial of respect to him as an individual, is perhaps an even harder problem than his lack of opportunity in getting a job. For where is the Negro to belong if not in America? The average Negro would be no more at home in Africa today than the average white man. African traditions and African culture have been lost. The Negro is American, feels American, and behaves American. Yet America constantly tries to exclude him. The difference between the North and South on this matter is merely one of degree. In the South, the discrimination is open and expected. In the North, the Negro is never certain what to expect. He may walk along contentedly for months, and then from an unexpected quarter, comes, subtly or openly, the blow which lowers his self-respect and makes him feel that he does not belong. This problem exposes one of the weak spots in our democracy. There is nothing in our laws, our Constitution, our Bill of Rights, which supports the theory that one race is inferior to another. Rather, do they give legal sanction to the opposite theory. Our best political leaders also sanction the American philosophy of an equal opportunity for all, regardless of race and color. And under this philosophy, we have made progress. In spite of the difficulties, the Negroes have forged ahead. Never before have a people made such rapid strides in less than a hundred years. But there is still a long way to go. Today, with a war being waged against democratic ideas, we cannot afford to be tolerant of those discriminations which are fundamentally contrary to the sense and spirit of American democracy. We must become more and more sensitive to violations of that spirit, and the behavior which I have described is a violation. Instead of a passive willingness to compromise in our standards, we must become more passionately attached to them. If the desire to truly implement the American way of life becomes strong enough, there will, in time, be no special Negro problems. His problems will be the problems of all human beings, no greater and no less than the white man's. You have just heard a talk on Negro problems in America by Professor Hortense Powdermaker of Queens College. Dr. Powdermaker was introduced by Professor Kimball Young, chairman of the Department of Anthropology and Sociology. This program came to you under the sponsorship of Dr. Paul Clapper, president of Queens College. It was produced by the Committee on Radio Education of the College, of which Henry Miller is chairman, in cooperation with your municipal station. Your script editor was Dr. George Simpson. Next Saturday, at the same time, Dr. Paul W. Tappan will speak on problems of delinquency in our cities. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
