As New York City Chairman for United Nations Day, I take pride in introducing the next voice that you will hear, particularly because of the message that she will bring to you. It is an interesting fact that although many nations and many creeds have many holidays, there is only one holiday that may be happily celebrated all around the world by every nation and by all religions. That day is October 24th, designated by all the world as United Nations Day. A special prayer for the day has been written and accepted by clergymen of various denominations. Now it will be delivered to you by one who may well be described as New York City's First Lady. Ladies and gentlemen, a prayer. For the United Nations, Mrs. Vincent Impelletari. God of the measureless universe, creator of man's conscience, to thee in this our fervent prayer for peace we lift our voices in unison. We Americans of every faith, of every creed, join together pleading for truth, justice, and charity among men. We pray for thy omnipotent aid in this hour of imperiled civilization. That thou shall cast out forever from human thought that flaming intolerance which makes for war and breeds bloody aggression. That the advocates of war shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. We pray to thee for the restoration of concord and amity among all the peoples of the earth. That all persons recognize the liberty due to religion and for the renewal of a way of life that is fruitful of great and good works. This, O Lord, is our fervent prayer. And this our mingled tribute to thy everlasting mercy. Amen. Let her go. All right, sir. When you're ready. Some few weeks ago, the charming wife of our mayor, Mrs. Vincent Impelletari, and I discussed a cash money prize for an essay on our New York City slogan, UN plus U equals peace. We asked the Board of Education to announce that we'd like to have essays on that topic from the junior high schools of New York City. We told them we wanted no more than a hundred words for which we would pay the winner $100, a dollar a word. The Board of Education took on the task and they advised us that there were over 30,000 entries submitted by the 90 high schools. These 30,000 entries were screened by English teachers of each school who selected two of the best, 90 schools, two from each school. 180 essays were sent to the junior high school division of the Board of Education. And under the supervision of Miss Mary A. Kennedy, Assistant Superintendent, 177, 136, 174, 183, and 183, and 183. The sixth finalists were brought to my committee, and from them one was chosen. The winner is obviously a thoughtful child, for she has made a beautiful analogy of the roof of her tenement house in which she lives and the heavens under which we all live. This child with her sweetness, simplicity and innocence has obviously had a religious training and a good background. She shows it in her little essay. The winner who receives the $100 is little Elaine Wade and now you will have the pleasure and I have the honor of announcing the voice of that child. She will read her prize essay. You n plus u equals peace. Miss Elaine Wade. The apartment house I live in on 124th Street is like the United Nations. People that live there are of many nationalities. Chinese, Spanish, French, Greek, American and others. Here we have people from all parts of the world living under one roof, serving one God in many different ways, being educated in schools and churches, to love their neighbors, to fight intolerance, to uproot racial discrimination. The world is your house. The heavens form your roof. The people are the tenants and God watches over us all. You and you and you, wherever you are in this world, live like good neighbors in love, affection and kindness for each other. Then you will be living proof of our formula. Un plus u equals peace for all eternity.