The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. Yes, this is the Police Safety Program, brought to you through the cooperation of His Honor the Mayor and the Police Commissioner, transcribed in the interest of highway safety by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful, you cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful, you cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful, make streets safer and safer for the ones so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful and take it easy, don't be in a rush. Good morning, boys and girls, good morning, mothers and dads. Good morning, everybody. Yes, this is your friend, Mr. Narrator, and we're speaking to you this morning from the Safety Studio. Yes, this is our Safety Studio, and the studio is crowded with friends. Crowded with friends. Yes, one of our important friends here this morning is our friend, Mr. Piano. Would you like to hear him say good morning to you? You would, eh? All right, now let me introduce him. Good morning, Mr. Piano. You see how he speaks? He speaks musically. Let's do that again. Good morning, Mr. Piano. And then we have our friend here, our Singing Safety Policeman. Good morning, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. Good morning. Now, isn't that a nice way to say good morning? He goes around singing good morning. And that's a very cheery way to say good morning, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. And then we have another man here. Well, this man has a very, very important job. Mm-hmm. He has, he's a policeman, but his job is to see that each and every person on the street conduct themselves in a safe manner. Mm-hmm. He is known to us as a Traffic Safety Policeman. So I'm going to introduce him to you. Good morning, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman. Hey, good morning, Mr. Narrator. Good morning, boys and girls. Good morning. Good morning. You know, Mr. Narrator, this morning... Yes? I brought a friend along. I brought Tommy along with me. Oh, is that Tommy? Yeah. Well, good morning, Tommy. Hello, Mr. Narrator. I'm glad. Nice to know you, Tommy. And, uh, you know why I brought Tommy along? No, why did you bring him along? Well, I promised him that, uh, maybe we would go to careful town. That, that is, if it's all right with you. Well, now, that's a very good idea, because I tell you this, this morning, we didn't know just what to do. Honest and Trudy, we didn't know what to do. Then, and so you suggested we go to careful town. That's a very good idea. Mm-hmm. Of course, there are set ways to go to careful town. Yes. And we must follow the directions of going to careful town. We must look in the talking safety book, because the talking safety book gives us the directions. So, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman, I'm going to ask you, please, would you go over there in the library over there and get our big talking safety book? Now, be careful with it, because... No, you mean a big book over in the corner. I'll get a point. All right, friends. Now, you put it right down here. That's right. Put it up there. That's right. That's it. Fine. Now, let me see. I've got to look through the pages here. We've got to find out how to get to careful town, because we have to follow these directions very closely. Let me see now. How to get to careful town. Oh, here it is, right here. Here's the book. Just a minute. I've got to read this first, you know, so you've got to find it out. First, everybody thinks safety thoughts. Mm-hmm. Second, while you are concentrating on safety thoughts, you think of the green traffic light. Third, then you look into the green traffic light, and you think. Now, that's a very good idea. Tommy, you want to come along with us? Yes, Mr. Narrow. Well, then you'll have to come over here close now. Yes, I am. And Mr. Traffic Safety Police, will you help us out with this here also? Well, I'd love to go along. All right, that's fine. Now, remember, first, everybody must think safety thoughts. Then we look into the traffic light. Then we concentrate. Everybody think. Everybody think. Hello, Mr. Narrow. Hello. Good morning, good morning, Mr. Talking Safety Book. Say, boys and girls, this is our friend Mr. Talking Safety Book. You know, he is the man who brings us all around Cafletown, and he takes us everywhere we want to go. Mr. Talking Safety Book. What is it, Mr. Narrow? I would like to introduce our friends here this morning. I want to introduce to you Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman. How do you do, Mr. Talking Safety Book? How do you do? I'm certainly glad to see you. I hope you won't mind this morning, Mr. Talking Safety Book. I brought my little friend Tommy along with me. Tommy, I'd like to have you meet Mr. Talking Safety Book. Well, I never thought a book could talk, but here is a real Talking Safety Book. Hello, Tommy. How are you? Hello. I'm fine. Isn't that funny? He never thought a book could talk. Why, the radio talks, and the motion pictures talks, so why not a book that talks? Sure. Say, Mr. Talking Safety Book. Yes, sir. We've come along here this morning, and this visit is known as a special visit this morning. A special safety visit, I presume? Yes, sir. Well, let me see now. What could be so special about this visit? I'll wager your young friend here, Tommy, has something to do with this visit. Am I right? Yes, yes. He asked Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman to bring him along for a special visit. Now, Tommy. Yes, yes, Mr. Narrator. We're going to let Mr. Talking Safety Book take us around, and I'm sure that you must have something that will give us a traffic safety lesson and show us the importance of being careful while we're on the street. Could you do something like that for us, Mr. Talking Safety Book? Well, now, let me see. Something, I suppose, of a safety, personal safety nature, shall we say? Something like that? Yes, sir. It would be a very good idea. Very good idea. Very good. Very good, then. We all know that safety is protection. Oh, that's true. Not only from accidents, but also from the threat of personal harm. Is that correct? That's true. Yes, sir, Mr. Talking Safety Book. I see. Very well, then. I have a very interesting animal that I would like you and your friends to see. You mean an unusual animal? Oh, very unusual. Now, would you mind very much coming around this corner here? Yes, we'll go with you. Step over this. Come along, Tommy. Come on now. Here he is right here. Now, what do you think of that? Oh, what a strange-looking animal he is. Well, this is what is called a chameleon. A chameleon? Why, why, he just looks like a lizard to me. Yes, he does look like a lizard, doesn't he? But this creature is very different. You see, this chameleon can change its color. Change its colors? Correct. That's amazing. If the surrounding foliage is green... Yes. And he feels he is in danger, he changes its color to green. Oh, that's cute. Well, then, you see, it is very difficult then to see him. Oh, I see. However, if the leaves are red, he changes to red. That is how Mother Nature has given the chameleon a means of protecting itself. By disguising itself from danger. That's personal safety. Green, if there's green foliage, he changes to green. Red, if there's red foliage, he changes to red. Exactly. Say, say, Mr. Narrator. Yes? When you mention those colors, well, that reminds me of the traffic lights, the traffic lights that are in the city. You know, the traffic lights are red, and then they're green. Say, that is true, Mr. Talking Safety Book. The traffic lights are red. I believe Tommy has something there. Yes, he really has. And that's true. If the comedian can change his colors like that... Oh, say, there's an excellent idea. I see the lesson right away now, Mr. Talking Safety Book. In other words, the chameleon changes his colors for his own protection from harm. And the traffic light changes its colors for our safety. Now you have it. Yes, the traffic light changes its colors for everybody's safety. In other words, is this an excellent idea? The traffic light, the traffic light is the chameleon of street safety? I've never heard it put differently or better. Oh, that's wonderful. You know something else, Mr. Narita? What is that, Mr. Traffic? What you just said is very true. Mm-hmm. But isn't it a shame that people don't realize how important that traffic light is for their safety? How it changes to protect them? Yes, that's true. So, if we are going to think of the importance of a traffic light, we must remember what Mr. Talking Safety Book has told us about the comedian and how he changes his colors for his personal protection from accidents and from harm. And we should also remember that the traffic light changes its colors for our protection. Mm-hmm. Yes, it does. Oh, say. I see the clock is going around. Mr. Talking Safety Book, we want to thank you very much for this visit to Careful Town. We really want to thank you. It was a pleasure. And do you mind if we come back again? No, I'll be glad to see all of you again. Come back real soon, won't you? Will you thank him, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman, please? Well, Mr. Talking Safety Book, I enjoyed this visit very much and I admit that I think I've learned something. Well, I'm glad. How about you, Tommy? Oh, yes. I liked it very much and I hope you'll take me along with you some other time. Yes, we will. Well, now for the present, let's get back to the safety studio. Come on. We've got to go back the same way now. Let's all give them a huddle here. Let us concentrate. Let us think. Shh. Think. Look at the green traffic light. Everybody think. And here we are back at the safety studio. Look, walk, and cross with safety. That is the safe thing to do. Look, walk, and cross with safety. That is the safe thing for you and for you, you should. Look, walk, and cross with safety. And tell your ma and your pa To look, walk, and cross with safety. Then they'll know how safe you are. Say, that was a very good song, Mr. Singer, safety policeman. Everybody should look, walk, and cross with safety. But I think we have something else we can add to that. Mm-hmm. If we must look, walk, and cross with safety, I think it would be a good idea if we should also think for our own safety. Yes, we should also think. Say, listen. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. There's a safety thinking music. But you know we have a little idea that we can use with that song? Mr. Piano has given me an idea. Mm-hmm. We should also think. So you want to try that song once more, Mr. Singer, safety policeman? And instead of you saying that, look, walk, and cross, I will whisper the words to show that we are thinking about it. Let us try it just once. Just like this. Look, walk, cross. With safety, that is the safe thing to do. Look, walk, cross. With safety, that is the safe thing for you. And for you, you should look, walk, and cross. With safety, and tell your ma and your pa To look, walk, and cross. With safety, and cross with safety. Then they'll know how safe you are. Well, we just have time now for our safety thinking ritual. Would you try that again? Ah, that's the way to go. But this is our safety thinking ritual. Everybody think. Listen. First, you go to the corner. Then you look at the traffic light. Wait for green. Then you look left. And then you look right. And then you walk across. And here's another thing. To remember. To walk safely. Remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner. Don't run in the street. Because that's where trouble and accidents meet. This transcribed program will be presented again next week at this same time. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Royal Estados公主 Festival would be a public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public public. That's where we stood. So we are from the world, I'd love to visit another animal sect of the subject. To find the Chancellor's Championship. The Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. You have to be a attention carefully. This is the end. Through the Municipal Broadcasting System. The local village John Rmpton that has cancelled every day. As a tombali pel granddad church will be made of one of the suites in the house. So we've got Ashley Bits on two honk to see it today. That's the only place where we have a mistake. Great place to relax, it's the name in this house. This is the one of our skyscret Union. This is the one of theéisbook line.