Good evening. From the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City, your city station brings you the ceremonies attending the dinner given by the city of New York to the President of the Republic of France, His Excellency Vincent Aureon. Speaking at this time is the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for Reception of Distinguished Guests. Here now is Grover A. Whelan. Way back in 1886, it was sent from the people of France to the people of the United States, and it symbolizes the feeling between the two countries and the contribution that France made to our precious liberty. And I know before any of the men you may know, may have noticed, that the statue is symbolized by the figure of a woman, a courageous woman, I'm sure, that you would not be happy unless you met the First Lady of France before her husband was allowed to speak. Madame Aureon, will you stand up? No, just bow. Just bow. Just bow. I understand that that's also true in connection with the American women. They are the First Lady of the Homestead and the First Ladies of the Land. If there is ever a person that was chosen by not only women, but also men, eight million and strong to rule them. In any community in the world, it is the next speaker. It is a great privilege for me to introduce our Mayor, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent隨llan St. R. Am 220 Tribal alum, we have Queen, Queen Track, Chairman of the Fort Major, George O'Longeras, and offers one of four years happen, and that our recipe is available with the Foundation of the City of Yos pretending to be the replaceable. Sir Weyland, the Remminence of Cardinal Spellman, Rabbi Halt, Bishop Dunnegan, distinguished guests, President Oriel, Madam Oriel, ladies and gentlemen. President Oriel, as mayor and in the name of the people of the city of New York, I offer you our hand in genuine friendship. We are indeed happy to greet you because we admire you both as a man and as a statesman, and because we in America keep the living tradition of warm friendship that exists between our people and yours. This spirit is particularly strong in New York City, which was little more than a village when the people of France gave us their very welcome help in our early struggle for freedom. I know you must realize now that you have been with us even for a brief period of time that we New Yorkers love France. You have seen... You have already seen our people line the sidewalks and cheer you as a good friend from a Stallworth nation. However, that was only a preview. Wait until tomorrow morning with the sun shining when you start up from the Battery to City Hall and then you'll really know what I mean. Our people see you as the highest representative of the liberty-loving people who presented us with the great statue, that is, the pride and joy of our harbor, the statue that gave so many of us from all parts of the world our first welcome to America, and that includes the mayor of the city of New York. Thank you. That statue has become the symbol of the United States, and today it is an ever stronger symbol of the friendship between our countries. That friendship has withstood the assaults of enemy armies. We New Yorkers want you to know that it stands ever higher in our hearts today because of your welcome and gracious visit. We bid you welcome and ask you to think of New York City as your other home. As a sign of our feeling, I am proud to read the following proclamation, declaring the period of your visit a time of celebration for the rededication of our friendship. The proclamation reads as follows. Whereas the city of New York will be honored by a visit from His Excellency Vincent Aureole, President of the Republic of France, and Mrs. Aureole, on Monday, April 2nd through Wednesday, April 4th. And whereas it will be my great honor as Mayor of the City of New York to officially receive at City Hall the President of the Republic of France at noon on Tuesday, April 3rd. And whereas the state visit of President Aureole is an historic occasion, since it is the first visit of a President of the Republic of France to the United States. And whereas it is a welcomed opportunity for the people of our city to express their thanks for the Statue of Liberty, which guards the entrance of our harbor, a gift from the people of the Republic of France to the people of the United States, mocking the alliance of our two nations in achieving the independence of the United States of America, and thus attesting their abiding friendship, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelitari, Mayor of the City of New York, request that during this period, buildings display our national colors and the flag of the Republic of France and hereby proclaim the period of President and Mrs. Aureole's sojourn in our city, a propitious time for us to reemphasize the warm friendship that has existed between our two great republics since their early creation, and to rededicate ourselves to the democratic principles upon which our republics were founded and which have been preserved untarnished in witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and so forth, signed by the Mayor of the City of New York. Thank you. And now, Mr. President, I am indeed happy to present you with the Medal of Honor of the City of New York, recently struck and voted to you by an admiring city government. It is the first to be presented to the Chief of a State. May you wear it in happiness and remember us by it forever. Thank you, people. Thank you. Thank you. His Excellency, the Governor of the State of New York, was unable to be here, and the Lieutenant Governor also is ill. But he's represented by a distinguished member of his Cabinet, the Attorney General of the State of New York, Nathaniel Gulstic. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Toastmaster, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, may I, in behalf of Governor Dewey, express his regrets for not being able to join in this well-deserved tribute to President Oriel. Both he and Lieutenant Governor Moore have been bitten by the bug. This time, of course, the infamous virus type. To you, Mr. President, and your charming wife, I bring the warm greetings and salutations of the people of this great empire state. Today, no nation standing alone can long survive. Free souls and self-government are the precious stakes here and everywhere. Dark horizons are the other alternatives. We in America must lead and set the example. And let us never forget that we best save ourselves when we help others to help themselves. In New York Harbor, at our gateway, stands the Statue of Liberty, a symbol of freedom and security. It stands bold and majestic, a cherished possession given to us by the people of France. It is a constant reminder that the Republic of France also loves liberty and freedom. We dare not dim its hope or its flame. It is rather significant that President Oriel was born the same year that the great sculptor Bartholdi finished the Statue of Liberty. Many years ago, the pattern of our present role began to take form. This was after the Spanish-American War. The then President, Theodore Roosevelt, said of us, and I quote, We the people have no choice as to whether or not we shall play a great role in the world. That has been determined for us by fate, by the march of events. We have to play that part. All we can decide is whether we shall play it well or play it ill. If that were so in 1908, its truth is even greater today in 1951. And I know that we as Americans will make the proper decision. And God willing, with the aid of France and the other free nations of the world, we shall always play it well. Thank you. Thank you. Because of the Pan American Conference that is in progress in Washington, the Secretary of State was unable to be here, but he is ably represented by Ambassador John F. Simmons, Chief of Protocol, who will speak on behalf of the nation. Admiral Simmons. Your Excellency the President of France, Madame Arreol, distinguished guests, you know Grover Whelan well enough, and I know him well enough, to know that he would never play a trick on anyone. Consequently, the fact that I only knew I was speaking two hours ago must be considered as an unexpected honor and pleasure, which it certainly is. In a few spontaneous words, I wish I had the gift of Gaelic oratory, which exists in France, to be able to express to you the magnificent impression which these wonderful people, the President of France and Madame Arreol have made in Washington during the past five days. That impression spread to all classes of people. The crowds in the streets. Government officials. Anyone who had anything to do with coming in contact with him had this marvelous impression of his personality, which you will enjoy and appreciate when he speaks to you later. I was felled by this virus, mentioned recently as an infamous virus. I think that this is one of the peculiar cases in our English grammar where something may be both famous and infamous. I would like to say that the visit of President Arreol is one which every one of us appreciates, has a tremendous significance in our present international crisis. It is symbolic of the lasting friendship between the people of France and the people of the United States. If any of you have had the privilege as I have of living in France, you will certainly appreciate what I mean. Friendship, international friendship, is not an abstraction any more than personal friendship. It is an abstraction. It is a very real thing. It is a thing which is basic in our relations with foreign countries. In my experience of 30 years in the diplomatic service, I can certainly attest to that fact. And I believe that we all agree that this visit, at this time, is one of profound international significance, which comes to the heart of each one of us in a very personal way. Thank you very much for the privilege of saying these few words. A prayer will be given by Dr. David de Sola Poole, Rabbi of the Spanish-Portuguese Synagogue. Dr. Sola Poole. Dr. David de Sola Poole. Dr. David de Sola Poole. Dr. David de Sola Poole. We pause for a moment of prayer to ask thy blessing. Dr. David de Sola Poole. God, Father in Heaven, on our guest of honour, on our city, our state, our country, the Republic of France, the Republic of France, and the United Nations. But how can we ask thy blessing if we do not so live as to deserve it? So therefore, may we, thy children here on earth, make ourselves more worthy of thy blessing, by realising ever more meaningfully that we are all, all brothers under thy divine fatherhood. May we, thy earthly children, come to recognise ever more clearly that all the earth is thine, and that therefore, all the earth must be bound up ever more closely in one brotherhood, in one neighbourhood in which we have been taught by thee to love our neighbour as ourself. And we welcome the President of the Republic of France among us, not with mere words, but we would welcome him with a closer, more active, more vivid, more real fellowship, that shall help assure here on earth well-being, security, peace, peace, for all thy children. So there will be fulfilled upon us the words that thou did speak of old in promise, that the stability of thy time shall be wisdom and knowledge, with reverence for the Lord. And nations shall not lift up sword against nations, neither shall they learn war any more. Amen. Amen. Your sources will pass in the calmness. Your sources of salvation will be the wisdom and intelligence. The fear of the eternal will be your treasure. One nation will not lift the sword against another, and we will not give it to the war. Amen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a great honor to present to you the President of the Fifth Regular Assembly of the United Nations, His Excellency, Ambassador Anderson. Mr. President of the Republic, Madame Auriole, Eminence, Mesdames, Messieurs, Les fonctions qui m'ont été confiées par l'Assemblée Générale me valent le grand privilège de saluer au nom des Nations Unies, Monsieur le Président de la République française. Nous aurons, Monsieur le Secrétaire Général Tricville et moi, l'honneur de vous accueillir bientôt, Monsieur le Président, au siège des Nations Unies. Monsieur le Maire de New York a bien voulu toutefois me donner dès ce soir l'occasion de m'associer à l'hommage qui vous est rendu. Je lui en exprime toute ma reconnaissance. Depuis votre arrivée aux États-Unis, nous avons, Monsieur le Président, lu chaque jour vos discours et vos déclarations. Nous avons lu également les commentaires de cette puissante presse qui, toujours présente, note et étudie les paroles et jusqu'aux moindres gestes des hommes d'État. Permettez à un observateur étranger de vous répéter, Monsieur le Président, ce que des personnes plus qualifiées ont souvent dû vous dire. Vous avez donné au peuple des États-Unis et à leurs dirigeants une image sincère de la France. Vous avez exposé les problèmes de votre pays avec une lucidité d'esprit et une clarté d'expression toute française. Vous avez aussi décrit le dur effort que votre patrie a accompli après de terribles années d'épreuve. Vous avez ainsi raffermi, s'il en était besoin, l'espoir et la confiance en la France. Votre pays, Monsieur le Président, n'a jamais refusé sa collaboration à l'Organisation de la Paix. Vous-même avez ces derniers jours parlé en termes excellents de l'Organisation des Nations Unies, où la France joue un rôle correspondant, non seulement à sa puissance matérielle, mais à son rayonnement. Permettez-moi de rappeler en particulier que parmi les efforts constructifs tentés au cours de ces dernières années, un des plus riches de promesses porte le nom de l'éminent ministre des Affaires étrangères de la République française. En proposant le plan Schumann, la France a notamment témoigné son désir de travailler de manière efficace à la construction de la paix, but suprême des Nations Unies. Je salue en vous, Monsieur le Président, le plus haut représentant de la France, membres des Nations Unies. Mr. President, Madame, Eminency, Mr. Mayor, Excellencies, Ladies, Gentlemen. The functions which have been entrusted to me by the General Assembly give me the great privilege to welcome on behalf of the United Nations the President of the French Republic. The Secretary-General, Mr. Trigvie-Lee, and I myself will have the honour of welcoming you soon, Mr. President, at the headquarters of the United Nations. The Mayor of New York has been good enough, however, to give me this evening the opportunity of associating myself to the tribute which is being paid to you. I express my thanks to him here. Since your arrival in the United States, Mr. President, we have read each day your speeches and your statements. We have also read the comments of that powerful press which is always present and which notes and studies the words and up to the slightest gestures of statesmen. Allow a foreign observer to repeat to you, Mr. President, what more qualified persons have probably said to you very often. You have given the people of the United States and their heads an image, a sincere picture of France. You have set forth the problems of your country with a lucidity of mind and a clarity of expression which are typically French. You have also described the considerable effort that your country has accomplished after the terrible years of suffering. You have thus confirmed, if it were necessary, the hope and confidence to be placed in France. Your country, Mr. President, has never refused its cooperation in the organisation of peace. You yourself in the last few days have spoken in excellent terms of the United Nations organisation where France is playing a role which corresponds not only to her material power but also to her influence and prestige. Allow me to recall in particular that among the constructive efforts attempted during these last years, one of the most valuable in promise bears the name of the eminent Minister of Foreign Affairs of the French Republic. In proposing the Schuman Plan, France has shown its desire to work in an effective manner for the construction of peace which is the supreme goal of the United Nations. I welcome in you, Mr. President, the highest representative of France, a member of the United Nations. His Excellency, Vincent Aureole, President of the Republic of France. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I am sorry that Mr. Douai is not here tonight, but I pray Mr. Latorney General, who has been salued all the time in terms so emovants, to be able to transmit all the time my thanks to his welcome and my desire to be able to restore. I was invited to Washington by Mr. Secretary of State. We were gated by his needs and the needs of Mr. President Truman and the government of the United States. And I did not think that he would still be represented by Mr. Latorney Simmons. And he also, since the first day, was nice, even though the President of the Republic government barqué even when President Trumpción Plain And was very suitable for the president of the United States! Of this Day, President von туда verde hun President of the United States and never more. The chicane to Mr. Ambassador Dumais. Mr. President of the United Nations, I will tell you tomorrow what are the feelings of France regarding your great organization. But today, I would like to thank you for the terms of the delicate and the way you are addressed to my people and to France in a language of purity and delicate that we have admired. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been said and made under the sign of the benefits of the Hugh you have been asked of ⅁, prime minister. Sarah Rabbi Speaker, Mr.othesley Linz and he Vladimir, General Edward, Esquire Francis Spellman, who has been a and before Mr. Granada has been reminded by his eloquence that in the war and in the occupation these co-religionnaires have suffered and have been for the liberation of our country. Finally, Mesdames, Messieurs, devant cette magnifique Assemblée qui vient de manifester sa sympathie et son affection aux représentants de la France, je voudrais, au nom de M. le ministre des Affaires étrangères et à mon nom, vous exprimer à vous tous qui avez la noble charge de conduire les innombrables activités de la cité, de l'État de New York, de l'ONU, des divers organismes internationaux, beaucoup plus que notre enthousiasme et notre reconnaissance. Notre conviction que l'amitié de la France et de l'Amérique a raciné depuis si longtemps dans nos cœurs est, pour le monde entier, une de ses meilleures espérances de paix et de liberté. — Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate it very much, your eloquent ardour and the way in which you said probably that you had decided, I presume it was by municipal decree, that you had decided that there was going to be sunshine tomorrow for our drive. I hope that the sun will not be too strong, otherwise I may have some jealousy around with my people in Toulouse. I have some sincere regrets and my heartfelt wishes for a prompt recovery. I was greeted in Washington by Secretary of State Acheson and I was very moved by his kindness and that of President Truman. At that time, I had seen that Mr. Simmons was also an extremely nice man. I did not think that I would have the pleasure of hearing him address us tonight. I think he is nice, even though Presidents of the Republic don't as a rule like protocol. But I have found, as a result of the kind words we have heard from him, that it will be necessary for me in the future to avoid making any trouble for my Mr. Dumen. Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, I shall tell you tomorrow what I think of the United Nations. I thank the Ambassador for the kind words which he expressed to me in extremely pure French, which I admired very greatly. This was all done under the sign of the very moving prayers, invocations that we have heard here. Cardinal Spellman gave us the opening prayer and the Rabbi evoked after that the difficulties of the recent struggle and the sacrifices of his co-religionaries for our country during that hard time. I would like, in the presence of this magnificent gathering, which has just demonstrated its sympathy and friendship for the representative of France, I would like, I say in the name of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in my name, to express to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have the noble task of conducting the innumerable activities of this city and of the state of New York, the United Nations and the various international bodies, much more than our enthusiasm and our gratitude, our conviction that the friendship between France and America, which has been rooted for so long in our hearts, is one of the best hopes for peace and freedom for the whole world. I have the joy of knowing already, personally, many of you, and even if it is not possible to me materially with each other, in particular, nor to serrish the hands of me as I would, the President of the Republic of France has yet to be held on this record difficultly, and I am sure that you will not hold me in my heart, because you know that there is no secret diplomacy in my heart and that I will speak to all of you, as I will speak to each other. Please. I already have the pleasure of knowing many of you personally, even if it is not physically possible for me to have a word with each of you or to shake as many hands as I should wish, although, in this respect, the President of the Republic of France holds a record which it would be difficult to break, I am sure you will not blame me, because you know that in my heart there is no secret diplomacy and that I speak to all of you as I would to each one of you. I'll be back. Applaudissements Une des qualités, une des qualités que l'on apprécie la plus communément en vous, Américains, c'est la franchise. On la qualifie même parfois de brutale, comme si la franchise n'était pas, par définition, toujours brutale. Mais ce que l'on dit moins et ce que nous aimons, nous, Français, particulièrement en vous, c'est que vous l'admettez aussi bien chez les autres à votre égard. Une des qualités que vous avez, les Américains, qui sont plus appréciées, est la francité. À parfois, elle a été qualifiée comme brutale, comme si la francité n'était pas, par définition, brutale. Mais ce qui est moins souvent dit, et ce que nous Français, l'admettez, c'est que vous acceptez la francité, quand les autres la utilisent pour vous. Ne voyez dans ces propos, ne voyez dans ces propos, aucune précaution oratoire destinée à vous faire accueillir maintenant des vérités désagréables. Ne craignez pas non plus que je cède à la tentation de tant de voyageurs européens et m'imagine, à mon tour, découvrir le nouveau monde. J'ai le plus grand respect pour Christophe Colomb, en quelque sorte, mon préviceur. Mais j'ai l'impression que vous n'attendez pas de moi, que je vous révèle l'Amérique et les Américains. Vous êtes beaucoup plus forts que moi sur ce sujet. Je ne pense pas que ce soit une précaution oratoricale pour vous préparer pour une vraie incroyable. Je ne craigne pas que, comme beaucoup de visiteurs européens, je deviendrai à la tentation de imaginer que j'ai découvert le nouveau monde. J'ai le plus respect pour Christophe Colomb. En quelque sorte, il était mon prédecessor. Mais j'ai l'impression que vous ne craignez pas que vous ne décidez pour vous, l'Amérique et les Américains. Vous êtes beaucoup plus versé dans ce sujet que je suis. Je n'en ai pas non plus, mesdames, messieurs, la prétention ni l'ingratitude de vous découvrir la France. Car notre peuple n'oublie pas comment, par deux fois, vos fils ont trouvé le chemin de notre patrie pour venir défendre côte à côte avec nos enfants la cause sacrée du droit et de la liberté. Et nous vous sommes reconnaissants d'une générosité qui ne s'est pas manifestée seulement sur le plan officiel par cette précieuse aide Marshall qui a permis à notre économie paralysée de repartir, mais s'est exprimée aussi sur le plan privé par ces innombrables initiatives individuelles et collectives qui ont secouru nos villes ruinées, soulagées des foyers en détresse et encore tout dernièrement par ces dons empressés et délicats qui ont rendu à la patrie de Montaigne le livre de raison. Non, les États-Unis et particulièrement à New York n'ont pas à découvrir la France, mais parce que vous nous connaissez et parce que vous nous aimez, vous nous demandez souvent ou nous ensemble de nos difficultés propres et face à nos problèmes communs, comment vous et nous pouvons agir ensemble le plus efficacement possible. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have either the presumption nor the ingratitude to try to discover France for you, because our people do not forget how twice your sons have found the way to our country to come and defend side by side with our children the sacred cause of right and liberty. We are grateful to you for a generosity evidenced not only officially by the valuable martial aid which has enabled our paralysed economy to start anew, but also privately through those innumerable individual and collective initiatives which have brought relief to our ruined cities, helped homes in distress, and very recently through the tactful and touching gifts which have returned to the country of Montaigne the Book of Reason. No, the United States and especially New York do not have to discover France, but because you know and love us, you often wonder where we stand amidst our own difficulties and how, in the face of our common problems, you and we can act together most effectively. It is the place I believe, I believe, to dissiper tout d'abord un certain nombre de malentendus sur ce qu'on appelle l'instabilité de notre vie to but. Cela me sera d'autant plus aisé que vos compatriotes qui sont témoins sur place, j'en ai eu la preuve quand j'ai été reçu avec tant d'amitié à l'American Club de Paris, nous rendent meilleure justice que nous-mêmes, qui avons le travers bien connu d'amplifier nos défauts, d'en inventer et même de les exporter. First, I believe it necessary to dispel certain misunderstandings about what is called the instability of our public life. This will be all the more easy for me because your compatriots who live in my country render better justice to us, as was proved to me when I was warmly welcomed by the American Club in Paris than we do ourselves as we indulge in the well-known habit of magnifying our faults, of inventing some and even of exporting them. Enfin, en fait, malgré les querelles de famille entre des partis politiques dont la pluralité n'est que la conséquence de notre structure politique et social très diversifiée par notre histoire et notre géographie, malgré un individualisme sans doute parfois excessif, mais qui a le mérite de nous dresser toujours contre d'autres oppressions. La même politique poursuivie par des gouvernements successifs dont les équipiers sont restés à peu près les mêmes a permis un redressement continu. En vérité, suivant une observation d'un de nos puissants écrivains, il n'y a pas chez nous sous les apparences d'instabilité de changement. Au contraire de certains pays où il y a changement sous l'apparence de la stabilité. En fait, en spite de la familie quarrel entre les parties politiques, whose nombre est simplement la conséquence de notre diversifiée politique et social structure et le résultat de notre histoire et géographie, et en spite d'un individualisme qui est parfois excessive, mais qui a toujours a le mérit de nous faire réveiller contre la pression, la même politique pursued par les successive gouvernements, whose team members have remained nearly the same, has made a steady recovery possible. In fact, according to the observation of one of our most incisive writers, under the appearances of instability, there are no changes in our country, whereas in certain other countries, under the appearances of stability, there are changes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You're proud of this perseverance in our efforts. Moi, précisément, dans la magistrature j'ai a mission d'assurer à travers les crises superficielles la garde et la permanence de nos intérêts nationaux. J'ai eu l'occasion de donner notamment au Press Club Washington, all the decisions that I asked me, and I don't remember the state of France in 1944, it was not. Its production was falling down to 50% in 1938, and it had no more means to produce. Today, we are at 140% in 1938. I am a witness to this constancy of our effort as the mission of the President is specifically to ensure the protection and the continuity of our national interests through these financial crises. I have had the opportunity, especially at the National Press Club in Washington, to give all the explanations that were asked of me. And I will not recall to you the state of France in 1944. She was at her lowest. Her production had dropped to 50% of 1938, and she had lost her means of production. Today, we are at 140% of 1938. In a country where the invasion, the occupation, and the combat of the liberation, the essai vides of men and covered of ruins, we have led simultaneously the reconstruction of our cities, our ports, our means and voice of communication, our flea marchand, the equipment of our industry and agriculture, the defense of the freedom to the East-Orient, the armament for the peace and security in Europe. And if there is still a important task, a huge task, I believe honestly that this balance, a verified and controlled by all, can be dignified of our own confidence and that of our friends. There is, and fortunately, the France is electrifying and participate, and there is questing rights to Sven Ardenberg on the past, all that phones take the most and most and most скаж that we have to be able to critique our守ville communities and For приз Sears,code Coral andires, France And wherever depending on the map, we wish to the rest of us who sit off And there is the place in this country where the world actually school is connected in very well and I feel known to Mahamke. He brings up him, quiet to be a movement and there is a great century that he brings prison with us, and death, that that she discretion us, that he said, I feel never before when we experience the East-Orientory… In a country which invasion, occupation and the struggle for liberation had left void of men and strewn with ruins, we have simultaneously reconstructed our towns, our ports, our communications and our merchant fleet, re-equipped our industry and our agriculture, defended freedom in the Far East and re-armed for peace and for the security of Europe. And, if a huge task still remains to be accomplished, I honestly believe that this balance sheet, which can be verified and checked by all, can make us worthy of self-confidence and of the confidence of our friends. It is very fortunate that we have a France which entertains and amuses its visitors, that it must not overshadow the France of the factories and of the fields. Industrious France, powerful and healthy France, the France of always. Applaudissements Quant à notre politique extérieure, que deux ministres seulement ont eu successivement la charge de diriger depuis la libération, M. Bidot, aujourd'hui vice-président du Conseil, et mon ami Robert Schumann qui est à mes côtés. Applaudissements Applaudissements Applaudissements Applaudissements Elle n'a pas varié le cap, et elle a toujours été soutenue, depuis la résurrection de la République, par l'immense majorité du Parlement. Applaudissements Le but en est clair, maintenir et organiser la paix dans la liberté, car pour nous la paix n'est pas un thème de propagande, mais le désir et le besoin profond d'un peuple qui n'a pas encore fini de penser les blessures des deux guerres, dont il a subi le premier à l'avant-garde les coups les plus rudes, d'un peuple qui a appris que la liberté est comme l'air pur qu'on respire. Ces effets bienfaisants passent souvent qu'il a perçus, mais la privation en est toujours mortelle, et on l'apprécie que quand on l'a perdue. Applaudissements Applaudissements As for our foreign policy, only two ministers have successively directed it since the liberation. Monsieur Bideau, today Vice-President of the Council, and my friend Robert Schumann, who is at my side. It has not changed its course, and since the resurrection of the Republic has always been firmly supported by an overwhelming majority in Parliament. Its aim is clear, the maintenance and organisation of peace with freedom. Because for us, peace is not a propaganda theme, but the desire and the profound need of a people which has not yet finished nursing the wounds of two wars, in which, as the vanguard, it was the first to suffer the strongest blows. Of a people who have learnt that liberty is like the pure air we breathe, its beneficial effects are sometimes unnoticed, but its disappearance is always fatal, and its need is fully appreciated only when it has been lost. Applaudissements Applaudissements Les moyens sont simples, à défaut d'une sécurité collective que les Nations unies s'efforcent de mettre en œuvre, et qui demeure, Monsieur le Président, notre grande espérance, la solidarité vigilante des Nations libres. Solidarité, parce que la solitude ou l'isolement, dans un monde devenu terriblement étroit, et où l'interdépendance des Nations comme des Hommes est un fait, serait une criminelle absurdité. Dans nos villages, quand l'incendie menace, on fait la chaîne, et personne ne pense qu'il pourra sauver ses biens du fléau, sans l'aide de ses voisins, ou arrêter les flammes avec un écriteau, ici, maison neutre. Deux guerres aient probablement été évitées, si en 1914 comme en 1939, Guillaume II et Hitler avaient trouvé à temps, devant leur monstrueuse tentative de domination et d'asservissement, la coalition invincible de tous les peuples libres. Et cette solidarité signifie, pour être efficace, toujours plus de cohésion et toujours plus d'unité dans notre diplomatie, dans notre stratégie, dans notre défense commune, de la paix et de la liberté. La cause de cette politique est simple, la solidarité des libres nations, en l'absence de la sécurité collective, dont les Nations Units essayent de réussir, et dont nous restons notre espérim. Il doit être solidarité, car la solitude ou l'isolation dans notre monde, qui a devenu très petit, et où l'interdependence de la nation et les hommes est facte, est une absurde criminelle. Dans nos villages, quand un feu se déroule, une chaine est organisée, et personne ne pense qu'il peut sauver sa propre des désirs sans l'aide de ses vies, ou arrêter les flammes avec une notice, qui dit que cette maison est neutre. Deux guerres, probablement, si, en 1914 et 1939, William II et Hitler, se trouvent en temps, leur attempt à la domination, était contre l'invincible coalition de tous les libres. Et pour être efficace, cette solidarité, c'est toujours pour plus de cohesion et de l'unité, notre stratégie, et notre défense commune de la paix et la liberté. Applaudissements Nos risques, comme nos ressources, doivent être partagés sur tous les points menacés. Si nous savons vraiment organiser l'association de nos forces, selon la belle formule d'une nation amie, un pour tous, tous pour un, allons, alors soyons-en sûrs, tout agresseur éventuel sera découragé, car il comprendra qu'il a plus d'intérêt à la coopération pacifique de tous les peuples, qu'au déchaînement d'un conflit où il serait inévitablement écrasé. C'est pourquoi nous apportons au général Eisenhower notre concours total, saluant à lui, non seulement le chef prestigieux des armées de la libération, et l'organisateur de la protection et de la défense de l'Europe, dont la civilisation et les richesses humaines et matérielles sont indispensables à la liberté du monde. C'est pourquoi, en dépit des deuils et des souffrances, nous poursuivons en Indochine, où nous avons donné l'indépendance à ces peuples, le même combat que celui des Nations Unies en Corée. C'est pour la même cause que tombent nos soldats et qu'il me soit permis de saluer ici les sacrifices du peuple américain. Nous avons des risques, et nos ressources, doivent être partagés dans tous les spots danger. Si nous savons vraiment comment organiser l'association de nos forces selon le sloignage de la bonne bonne forme, «un pour tous, et tous pour tous, nous devons être sûr que un possible agressor sera déterré. Il comprendra qu'il a plus d'intérêt de la paix de notre déterrément qu'il aurait été un peu déterrément d'un en train de faire croire. C'est pourquoi nous avons donné l'Eisenhower la voie de l'Obson de l'Union de la liberté, mais aussi l'organiser de la protection et de la défense de l'Europe dont la civilisation et la ressource des matériaux et les ressources sont indispensables à la liberté du monde, That is why, in spite of our suffering and our losses, we pursue in Indochina, where we have given independence to these peoples, the same struggle as that of the United Nations in Korea. It is for the same cause that our soldiers are dying. Allow me to pay tribute at this time to the sacrifices made by the American people. And that is why, also, we do not accept the fatalism of the war. Never, our democracy, not more than American democracy, will be free to an aggression. Always, and passionately, we will do all our efforts to organize the peace. We will be able to put in service to peace, with our moral cohesion and military solidarity, the community to organize the prosperity of the world and the better the social well-being. We will protect the human beings against the misery and the needs. We will ensure that the class of the most désirer, not only the possibility of living dignified, but of having their just part of the riches created by the labor of the human. When today it is seen, Mr. B. fluorine to the peace, past members of the mass contrario, the peace and freedom and misty issues. and the messengers. It is to build peace. And that's why we support all the efforts of all the international cooperation and fraternities. That's why we thank the United States for the financial markets that they give us for this common cause. That's why we have taken the initiative to make Europe the plan of carbon-acier which the President Schumann gave his first concrete manifestation. I read somewhere that New York was a city of Europe, but in any countries in particular. You give us an example, because in some way, America is already a unified Europe. Unified. Yes. And it is also why we do not accept the inevitability of war. Our democracy will never start aggression any more than the democracy of the United States. Always, and in every manner, we will organize peace. We intend to place at the service of peace, side by side, with our moral cohesion and our military solidarity, the community of our efforts to organize the prosperity of the world and improve social welfare. To protect mankind against misery and need. To ensure for the less favored classes, not only the possibility of living in dignity, but also a fair share of the wealth created by man's labor. Thus, to suppress dissatisfaction, anger and resentment through social justice is also to strengthen the army of freedom and of truth in the face of illusions and lies, and to fortify peace. And that is why we are giving our support to all the organizations of international cooperation and mutual aid. That is why we thank the United States very warmly for the financial help they are giving us in this common cause. That is why we have taken the initiative of reshaping Europe. The coal-steel plan, to which my friend President Schumann has devoted all his creative faith, is the first concrete proof thereof. I have read somewhere that New York is a European city that belongs to no particular country of Europe. You are therefore providing us with an example. In a way, America is a Europe already united. A cette œuvre... A cette œuvre... qui répond à notre idéal. Comme la nécessité de l'Histoire... Nous apporterons cette foi... Cette persévérance... Cet enthousiasme... Dont l'Amérique imprègne tous ceux... Qui sont témoins... De son magnifique développement... Et de son énergie créatrice. Nous apportons, Mesdames, Messieurs... De ce voyage... Un optimisme nouveau. Nous apportons... La certitude... Que pour le bien de l'humanité... La France et les États-Unis solidaires... Seront à la hauteur... De la responsabilité mondiale. De la responsabilité mondiale. To this task... Which corresponds to our ideal... As well as to the necessities of history... We shall devote that faith... That perseverance... And that enthusiasm... With which America inspires... All those who witness... Her magnificent development... And creative energy. We are carrying back... From this visit... A feeling of new optimism. Ladies and gentlemen... We are carrying back... The certainty... That for the good of humanity... France... And the United States... Together... Will meet their world responsibilities. Si j'ai été... Je m'excuse... D'avoir été... Quelque peu long... Dans mes explications... Mais j'ai tenu... A vous dire... Tout ce que nous pensions... Comme nous le pensons. Et maintenant... Je veux lever mon verre... Mesdames et messieurs... A la cité... Et à l'État de New York. A monsieur le maire... A monsieur le maire... A monsieur le gouverneur... Dewey... Qui ont prodigué... A notre pays... Tant de marques de sympathie. A vous tous... Mesdames et messieurs... Nos amis de toujours... Aux États-Unis... Et à la France... Aujourd'hui... Comme hier... Fraternellement unis... Pour la paix... Et pour la liberté du monde. Moi-même.roson-ie... symptoms engendrage! Ici conscience en estctive... Ça fait preuve du monde... On m'a dit. L''emp MR. pas de terribly avancée... A plus, un délauché... D' sample... D' fornель, tua Brighton... I apologize for having been rather long in the explanations I have given. But I wish to say to you, all we think, as we think it. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I raise my glass to the city and to the state of New York, to Mayor Impeliteri and to Governor Dewey, who have given to our country so many proofs of their friendship. And to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, our friends of all time, to the United States and to France, fraternally united today as yesterday for the peace and the freedom of the world. Benediction will be pronounced by the right, Reverend Horace William Dunningham, Episcopal Bishop of New York. Benediction will be pronounced by the right, Reverend Horace William Dunningham, Episcopal Bishop of New York. May the blessing of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Ghost, be and abide with you all this night and forevermore. Amen. Meeting is adjourned. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you. From New York's Waldorf Astoria Hotel, you've been listening to the ceremonies attending the dinner given by the City of New York in honor of the visiting president of the Republic of France, His Excellency Vincent Oriol. In addition to His Excellency participating in the program tonight, for the Honorable Vincent Arium Pelleteri, the Mayor of the City of New York, His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York, Ambassador John F. Simmons representing the Secretary of State of the United States, Rabbi David D. Solapool, the Right Reverend Horace William Badden Donegan, the Bishop of New York, His Excellency Nasrola Entizam, the President of the Fifth Regular Session of the United Nations General Assembly. The presiding chairman for tonight's program was the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, chairman of the Mayor's Committee for Reception of Distinguished Guests. This concludes our broadcast from the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, and we return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building for the regularly scheduled program. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.