We must organize for civil defense so completely that every necessary job is manned capably and devotedly. In the language of the military, this is Operation Neighbor. This is the sixth in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. This is the network from which you will get your official information and news in the event of an emergency anywhere in New York State or in nearby areas. To bring you essential information and instruction to tell you what has been done, what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of an atomic attack, and what you can do to help, each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here's Bill Leonard. This week, our topic is women in civil defense, and our time will be spent answering questions on that subject that you have asked in your letters. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First, a discussion of the subject from the state level with Adelaide Healy, special assistant to the director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And then, local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about survival in respect to their individual communities. Mrs. Healy, our first question is from a listener in Poughkeepsie. It's been asked actually in several ways by a great many people throughout the state, and this listener says, except for general statements concerning women in civil defense, there has been no clear explanation given of what women are expected to do. What training do they require? What jobs can they fill? Perhaps the reason is the fact that the first need of civil defense was to set up an overall organization. Now that that has been accomplished, the participation of women in specific jobs becomes clear, and a compelling need exists throughout the state for volunteers in a large number of categories. The greatest need at the moment is for 250,000 women to be assigned to welfare services. Homeless people will be directed to mass shelters or private billets as close as possible to their own homes. These homeless people will have to be fed. So will civil defense workers, and particularly members of mobile teams coming into a stricken area. Tons of food will have to be prepared, cooked, and distributed. Stationary and mobile canteens, soup kitchens, will have to operate quickly and efficiently. Clothing stations, staffed by women volunteers, must be ready to sort and distribute the tons of new and used garments needed by these people. So you see, Mr. Leonard, 250,000 women volunteers does not seem to be too many for the defense welfare services. Certainly not. We have another question here from a woman who lives in what she describes as a non-target area, and she says, Because the people of this community feel safe in the event of a bombing attack, there is no great amount of enthusiasm for participation in civil defense. Is this a realistic attitude? I suppose you'd answer that this is not a realistic attitude. There are all indications that the damage caused by an atom bomb would be too great for any stricken community to deal with. Additional help, I suppose, would have to come from the outside if the stricken area is to survive. In an atomic war, the non-target areas really serve as the good Samaritans to their neighbors. I guess we're all in it together, and our country will stand or fall on the success of our teamwork. I hope you don't mind my answering that question, Mrs. Healy. I have another one here from a woman who says that she lives near Buffalo, and she asks, Can I enroll in the aircraft warning service as a spotter? And please tell me what qualifications are needed for women in this branch of civil defense. Yes, she may enroll in the aircraft warning services, and the qualifications are very simple. Any woman interested in becoming a spotter should contact her local office of civil defense. This letter's from a woman in Schenectady, Mrs. Healy. I lived in London, she says, during the Blitz of the last war, and I remember that as a precaution to damage from air raids, we were instructed in fireproof housekeeping. Shouldn't similar instructions be given today? Yes. Fireproof housekeeping is very necessary, even more necessary today than it was during World War II. Today we say that firefighting is every able-bodied person's business, and that means every woman's business. Every woman, in addition to her good fireproof housekeeping, must learn to extinguish small fires in her own home, and be ready and able to assist her neighbors in extinguishing theirs. Here's a question that poses a domestic problem, and it's from a woman in Albany, and it reads, My husband works during the day, and in the evenings he spends a great deal of his time in civil defense training. I don't think the emergency's as bad as he puts it, and certainly not bad enough to keep him away from his home and family. If you mean, is that work necessary, the answer is yes. I will make it even stronger than that. Unless every able-bodied American citizen, and that means every woman as well as every man, takes on a job in civil defense, there may come a day when there won't be any homes and families for any one of us to go home to. Every adult who is not subject to military service or is not subject to emergency call in an essential industry or profession has an inescapable duty in this field. He must volunteer for one of the civil defense services. When I was abroad, I heard this statement made. Civil defense alone cannot win a war, but without it, a war is lost. In other words, today everybody must find a job in civil defense and must learn that job and do it to the best of his or her ability. And every community, whether it is in a target or a non-target area, needs volunteers. And the reports on volunteer recruitment are not satisfactory, I might add. People are not assuming their responsibilities. And thank you, Mrs. Adelaide Healy, special assistant, to the director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission for answering some questions about women in civil defense. We'll have more information about this subject in just a moment. And meanwhile, this concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. Many of the letters we receive are from people of the city of New York and to answer some of the questions, we have with us in the studio Mrs. Rose Lehman Stein, director of the Speakers Bureau and vice chairman of public information for the office of the coordinator of recruiting and public information. Mrs. Stein, our first question comes from a lady who lives in the Bronx, and she writes, as a retired nurse, I should like to know what provision is being made to provide adequate care for all the emergency cases which an attack on this city might bring. Even without the emergency, there's a shortage of nurses today. Mr. Leonard, handling an emergency in a possible attack is a matter of adequate training in advance by volunteer workers. A campaign to enlist 291,900 volunteers for the medical emergency division alone of the New York City Civil Defense is now underway. This includes professional and practical nurses, retired nurses, nurses' aides, men and women who have had any hospital or nursing training, laboratory technicians, litter bearers, in short, every type of assistance needed in hospitals. I want to say that right now, volunteer interviewers are on duty in 61 municipal and voluntary hospitals throughout the five boroughs to register nurses and other hospital volunteers. An expanding nurse's force will be one of the most essential factors in coping with a disaster in New York. Many thousands of lives may be saved by the quick action of nurses pending the time when a doctor can see and treat the injured. It is urgent that every able-bodied man or woman who has had training as a nurse or practical nurse or as a nurse's aide, register at once at the nearest hospital now recruiting for hospital volunteers. Mrs. Stein, this question is from a listener in Brooklyn. I have a troop of Girl Scouts and we're anxious to help in civil defense. Please tell me whether we can be of assistance and to what agency we should volunteer our services. All Scouts can be of tremendous service to the civil defense program if they will volunteer as messengers. Messengers may be a very important means of keeping the lines of communications functioning in the event of an emergency. Girl Scout leaders are especially urged to encourage their troops to volunteer in the emergency welfare division where Scouts can be of tremendous assistance. I should like to say to this particular troop leader that if she will contact her Borough Office of Recruiting and Public Information at No. 2 Court Street, Brooklyn, they will give her any help she may desire. Fine. Here's a letter from a listener in Jackson Heights. My neighbor tells me that the city of New York needs half a million volunteers for civil defense. This sounds fantastic to me. If it's true, why doesn't the government draft people for this service just the way we draft men for the Army? Mr. Leonard, may I say that not a half million, but a million men and women are needed to carry out the civil defense program. One out of every eight New Yorkers is required as a minimum force to provide adequate protection for this city in the event of attack. There is a place for everyone as a home front soldier in the ten categories of civil defense in which men and women are urged to enroll. Women proved in World War II that given the opportunity, they will make good on any job, which does not, of course, require exceptional physical exertion. No hastily recruited, unorganized, untrained group of volunteers can hope to function efficiently in an emergency. Today we know that survival depends on teamwork and teamwork on training. May it never be said of New Yorkers, too little and too late. How about the second part of that question? If such a large number are needed, why doesn't the government draft people for civil defense just as men are drafted for the Army? We hope that drafting for civil defense will never be necessary. Civil protection is not something that is done for us, but rather it is something that we must do for ourselves. The government, the state, the city can set up organizations, can provide us with the means to function, give us instruction and instruments with which to work, but the business of survival in an attack is a personal business and depends on us alone. Thank you, Mrs. Rose Lehman Stein. Our topic next week will be welfare, and our speaker is Mr. Robert T. Lansdale, New York State Commissioner of Social Welfare, and Mr. Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare for New York City. And now this is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the sixth in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those about welfare. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at the same time next week when we'll discuss welfare with our guests, Mr. Robert T. Lansdale, New York State Commissioner of Social Welfare, and Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare in New York City. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. One of the former, the technical tools we're going through law firm is a pilot team. To be vraag property for worried about watching this president, buscando the whole website現在 by talking about theasis, and certainly expect that she's going to show students to comet Zachary's democracy can be submitted for her question program. To be careful how well it pursues around in hopes of becoming an emergency room, and when we generally show you everything says we're gonna do it, to be careful with sauteing design. All the kind of work will explain the Angeles Segwork as unique as that is open