Queen's College, youngest of New York's municipal colleges, brings you the last of a series of broadcasts in celebration of the completion of the first four years of the college and its first commencement, which will be held June 16th of this year. This morning we present a discussion entitled The Consumer in 1941 by two members of the Department of Economics of Queen's College, Dr. Persia Campbell and Professor Henry Miller. Dr. Campbell was formerly the Executive Secretary of the Consumers National Federation. Her latest book is Consumer Representation in the New Deal. Dr. Miller is the author of Price Control in Fascist Italy and is the production director of this radio series. We are happy to present these speakers to you. Dr. Campbell speaking first. Last week we had a very illuminating discussion of taxation in 1941 and its effect on prices, consumption and the defense program. I felt, however, that not enough emphasis was given to the effect of different types of taxes on living standards. The sales tax, for instance, is popular with governments because the burden is less consciously realized by the people. But if it is placed on necessities, it has a depressing effect on the standard of living of low-income groups. What you mean, Dr. Campbell, is that the sales tax is a regressive tax which puts a larger proportionate burden on the poor man than on the rich. For example, the tax on the daily package of cigarettes represents approximately three percent of the income of a man who earns a thousand dollars, while it is only three-tenths of one percent, or one-tenth as much proportionately, on the income of a man getting ten thousand dollars a year. In the same way, if the proposed one cent per pound tax on sugar is adopted, it will fall proportionately heavier on the lower income groups. That's right, Dr. Biller, and it is particularly important during a prolonged defense effort that we avoid any action that will lower living standards on the masses of the people. You have just said something that sounds like heresy in economic theory. Isn't it generally assumed that in maximizing resources for defense, there has to be a cut in living standards? Mrs. Roosevelt has been talking of a possible need to sacrifice some of the things we now enjoy. I am glad you took me up on that point, because it is of central importance. You will agree that now, more than ever, we must maintain internal morale based on the physical and moral stamina of the people. Have you looked at the study on family purchases made a year or two ago by the National Resources Committee? You mean the figures showing that as of 1935-36, two-thirds of the families of this country had less than $1,500 a year to spend on consumer goods? Yes. I think it was a shock to most of us to find how little the great majority of American families had to live on. And though income has improved since then, it is still safe to assume that most families are not able to satisfy the minimum physiological needs for health. The point I want to make is that if we are to keep up morale over a considerable period of time, we must at least maintain existing living standards and, if possible, improve them. You will agree that this is a matter of the greatest importance. Agreed. But how are you going to do it? You're asking for guns and butter, too. I am going farther than that. I am saying we have to have it. And there is no reason why we shouldn't, if we make up our minds as to the necessity. Of course, there will be some shortages, as for instance, aluminum. If I remember correctly, that is what Mrs. Roosevelt had in mind in connection with sacrifices. But in most cases of shortage, good substitutes are available or are being developed. For instance, plastic lipstick holders in place of brass casings. However, for most consumer goods, shortages need not develop. That is probably true for the food industries. We have surpluses of many agricultural products. And even if we send shipments to the allies, we can easily expand the agricultural plant, or we can get supplies which are available elsewhere. Why do consumers let the tariff system stand in the way of their getting plentiful cheap canned beef from Argentina? I understand that Argentine canned beef is much better than our own. Yes, that is generally recognized. But anyone who followed the recent struggle of the Army and Navy to get congressional approval for purchases of Argentine beef will understand how powerful are the private interests supporting the tariff system. Consumers haven't got much bargaining strength because they are poorly organized. And certainly they cannot exert as much pressure as the Army and the Navy. The fact is the position of the consumer in 1941 depends to a large extent on consumers themselves. If they could organize effectively, public policy would change considerably. Or if the public were to become sufficiently aware of the importance of the consumer point of view, the same result would follow. One of the main difficulties is that we tend to adopt such a negative or completely pessimistic attitude toward protecting living standards during war period. We don't even try to plan differently. That is one way in which the consumer commissioner on the National Advisory Defense Commission has done good work. Let me give you an example. When the Army decided to use fluid milk instead of canned milk for the soldiers, it was feared that serious milk shortages would develop in all localities near the camps. But instead of that, the Army, in cooperation with the consumer commissioner and the Department of Agriculture, looked around for surplus areas from which large supplies of fluid milk could be drawn. And as a result, there were no local shortages. That is a very good illustration of what careful planning in the consumer interest can do. But it applies to one of the agricultural products where, admittedly, surpluses exist. When it comes to industrial products, isn't the situation different? With billions of dollars going into defense contracts, isn't it to be expected that fewer consumption goods will be turned out of the factories? We have to remember, Dr. Miller, that we started on this defense program with a tremendous slack in our economy. Idle men, idle capital, idle plants. All this idle capacity ought to be put fully to work before any general competition between defense and consumption goods is allowed to arise. And it is certainly not likely to be put fully to work before the end of 1941. In a system of priorities, in the placing and timing of defense contracts, the government can, if it will, exert great influence in getting industry to maintain the flow of consumer goods to market, and even increase it enough to meet the new purchasing power of those formerly unemployed who now have jobs. You are right in emphasizing the importance of keeping up supply rather than fixing prices, Dr. Campbell. Now that the president has given Leon Henderson the responsibility for putting a ceiling over prices, it is important to remember that fixed prices will not help consumers if the goods are not available. Of course, that does not mean that we should not check speculative price rises, but only that we should be careful to put first things first. There is another aspect to this problem of maintaining living standards that will be of even more importance in the future. That is the elimination of waste. Sooner or later we should undoubtedly have greater competition between defense and consumer goods. Moreover, when the new tax program goes into effect next year, consumers will find themselves short of some purchasing power unless they can make up for it in extra work. How can we offset this development by eliminating waste? There is a great deal of waste in the industry itself, and waste also results from ignorant or careless practices of a housewife which keep her from getting her money's worth when she goes to market. Have you seen the recent government estimates indicating that consumers suffer a loss of $1 billion annually or about $45 per family as a result of short wait? That is rather startling, but do you think the housewife can ever be educated to watch the scales? Perhaps not quickly enough to help protect living standards during the next few years. Federal and local governments will have to take more responsibility for regulation and inspection. This applies also to quality labels. It is impossible for consumers to get their money's worth without better labeling and grading of products. Do you advocate compulsory grading of consumer goods? I think we should have compulsory grading of food products immediately. It is no use putting on a national campaign for better nutrition if the housewife is to be left to her own resources or the mercy of private interest when she goes to market. New York City Commissioner of Markets has recognized this fact in supporting the bill now before the City Council for compulsory grading of meat. Dr. Campbell, you seem to take the position that it is an essential part of a defense effort to maintain basic living standards or even improve them, and that therefore any help that can be given the consumer in getting her money's worth becomes a matter of national importance. Would you apply that argument also to questions of consumer credit? As you know, half the families in New York State are tied up in credit contracts of one kind or another, either installment credit or cash loans. And there are many wastes involved in this whole credit structure. How far do you think consumer credit ought to be regulated by the government in order to protect consumer standards? I think the only sensible position to take in all such matters in the present emergency is to emphasize the central importance of maintaining our basic living standards and to plan the best ways of doing so with reference to all items of the consumer budget. We have to face the fact that most consumer buying is done by busy housewives who are not well informed about their buying problems and are not organized well enough to bargain successfully with industry. For some things the government must assume more responsibility. I think also that as part of this tremendous national effort, businessmen might very well be asked to assume more responsibility also and cooperate more fully in building up our internal defenses. Didn't the retailers enter into some kind of a gentleman's agreement not to indulge in scare advertising? I understand they did at a conference with a consumer commissioner. I think they might go farther and find ways for eliminating various forms of waste in industrial practices. For example, the practice known as deliberate obsolescence. That is to say, cutting down on the durability of products or changing styles or colors just to get a replacement market. Yes, Dr. Campbell, that fact is often overlooked. It is easy to make a note of price rises, but not so easy to tell when quality is deteriorated or when it is not as good as it might be if manufacturers were to use the most improved methods of production. Dr. Dr. Moore, did you see the testimony given at the recent patent hearings before the TNEC to the effect that the Bell telephone system has for years made for its own use vacuum tubes that last 50,000 hours, whereas radio tubes on the market are built to last less than one-tenth that time and less than the average life of radio receiving sets themselves? Dr. Manufacturers admit that for a few cents more in cost, most types of tubes could be made to last the life of a set. Now, obviously, for such a small increase in cost, consumers should be able to get the more durable products. Your point is that there are a number of ways of tackling this problem of protecting living standards during a prolonged war effort. We should maintain existing flow of consumer goods to market. We should also eliminate waste of all kinds. whether it arises in industry itself or in misbuying by the consumer. Dr. That's right, Dr. Miller. We could also develop special programs for improving certain aspects of living. For instance, the provision of better medical care. What a difference in public health might be brought about if we could devise adequate means for bringing doctors who want work into effective contact with a great number of people who need doctors. Dr. We might, in fact, turn this emergency into an opportunity for improving the whole quality of our living if we could agree on the tremendous importance of doing so and were determined to find ways to bring it about. However, government cannot be expected to go too far ahead of public opinion. Therefore, the position of consumers in 1941 is largely up to consumers themselves. You have just heard a discussion entitled, The Consumer in 1941 by Dr. Persia Campbell and Professor Henry Miller of Queens College. This is the last program in the Queens College radio series. We are grateful to the many people who wrote to us about the programs. The staff of the municipal broadcasting system who have been most helpful and the participating members of the departments of anthropology and sociology and economics. These programs have come to you under the sponsorship of Dr. Paul Clapper, president of Queens College. They were produced by the committee on radio education in cooperation with your municipal station. We draw your attention to the Queens Institute series and the extension courses. May 17, 1941, a Saturday, will be open house at Queens College. Parents and friends are cordially invited to visit the college that day from 9 a.m. on. This is Bert Dixon speaking for the municipal broadcasting system.
