Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses how can we best defend America. Taking part in this program are Robert A. Taft, United States Senator from Ohio, Hanson Baldwin, Military Analyst of the New York Times, and Malcolm Sharp of the Law School of the University of Chicago. And now to begin today's Roundtable on how can we best defend America. Mr. Sharp. What are the military facts of the present Russian threat? What foreign policy best takes account of these military facts? How great is the danger? What more can we do now to defend America? Senator Taft, let's begin by hearing your view on whether we should build up land forces or count on sea and air power to defend America. Well, Mr. Sharp, I think we have to have all three. But we have to understand this basic limitation. Even a country like the United States can't do everything that could possibly be done to build up against a war with Russia in time of peace. I suppose the military people could give us projects that would cost $150 billion a year, or half of our entire production, such as we did in all-out war in the Second World War. But it would destroy liberty in this country. It would completely wreck the civilian economy of the country. It would build up the public debt. It couldn't be paid for. And we have to remember that this is a condition that may go on for 10 years. This is something we've never seen before. And so among these various projects, we have to be selected. When we select, I think the most important thing is the development of an air power, combined, of course, with control of the seas by the Navy, which will dominate the air over this country, as far as possible over the oceans surrounding this country, and as far as possible present an aggressive attack against Russia itself. That seems to me the first requirement. There are many other things we can do, which no doubt will be developed on land and in the sea. Baldwin, you are a graduate of the Naval Academy, an experienced military analyst. Do we depend on sea and air power, or on land power for our defense? We depend on all three, Mr. Sharp. A great lesson, it seems to me, of Korea, and for that matter of World War II, is the indivisibility of military force. I would agree with Senator Taft completely that priority must go to sea power and air power, because only by sea or by air can attack come to the United States, which must be the secure base of all our military operations. And only by sea and by air can we take aid to any enemy, or for that matter, fight any war against any power overseas. But I think Senator Taft overlooked the fact that unless we have land power, and land power overseas, we can't control the seas and the air over the North Atlantic and the Pacific. Land power, as Korea should, is still essential. Well, but it's essential if we go on to the land mass of Asia or Europe. But we never should have been in Korea, Mr. Baldwin. That's the answer to that requirement. I don't say that we shouldn't have land power, of course, or assist in Europe. I just voted for the contribution to a European army. But certainly it seems to me that it is capable of such indefinite increase in use of men and expense. In time of peace, we can't positively rely on land operations, which are so extremely expensive and difficult. We doubtless all agree that foreign policy is our first defense. We hope that foreign policy will keep us out of war. Yet foreign policy and military policy are now always closely intertwined. I suppose one thing we need to have is some sense of what the next war would be like if we have to have one. What do you think of that, Mr. Baldwin? Well, it seems to me, Mr. Sharp, that we sometimes tend to put the cart before the horse in some of this. I think we've got to know first what kind of a world we want. And then and only then can we formulate the strategy we would use to fight any war we might have to fight to win that world. In other words, more simply, we've got to have a clear idea of our political objectives in the world. If we allow military strategy first to dominate the picture, then the military dominate foreign policy. And not only that, we will lose the peace a second time. Do you think we really asked the wrong question first? I do. Well, I think I only have this reservation. I agree with Mr. Baldwin. I have this reservation that I doubt if anybody is enough of a prophet today to say what the Third World War is going to look like. And one of my objections to the Atlantic Pact and to the European Army business has been that it seemed to me to commit us to a particular kind of war when maybe that wouldn't be the kind of war we'd like to fight when we come to that war. I quite agree, though, that we ought as far as possible decide what that war is going to look like and then prepare for the particular thing we think is coming. My great point, Senator, is if we try to fight an unlimited war again, a war for unlimited objectives, unconditional surrender or whatnot, if we are going into the war with the idea of completely demolishing Russia and destroying her as cottage was destroyed or dropping a lot of A-bombs indiscriminately, then we will lose the peace. I think we can fight a limited war against Russia and can deliberately plan to do so. Well, I agree with this, that certainly the unconditional surrender policy, the theory of wiping Russia out, is antagonistic to every thought I have. How far you can limit your war once you start it, I certainly would, I don't know. I think that's somewhat doubtful. Well, Marvin, what objectives would you set to control us? Well, it's been done in the past. Limited wars against Russia have been fought successfully in the past. The Russo-Japanese War, the Crimean War, even Charles of Sweden, before he got the bug and tried to march deep into Russia. If we ever try to march to Moscow type of strategy, unlimited war, either by land or an unlimited atomic war, I think we could conceivably lick ourselves or lose the peace. But, land power in defense of Western Europe, coupled with selective atomic bombing, particularly Russian oil refineries and communications, and the use of combined land, sea, and air power for peripheral action against certain areas in Russia, such as the Arctic, the Black Sea, Sokolene, upon which Russia depends for oil supply in the Far East, these things, limited operations of this sort, far from the Russian centers of power, could, I think, defeat Russia. Well, you think, in other words, you could destroy their productive ability to maintain an army in the field by selective bombing of those sources of supply of oil and important munitions of all kinds. Coupled with the use of land and sea power, to force them to fight at places which we choose, not places that they choose. In other words, the Crimean Peninsula, for instance. That's why the British were able to win that war with their allies, because only a limited part of Russia's vast land power could possibly be employed. The same thing would be true of Sokolene. So that you would not commit a vast land army to a project of trying to actually occupy Russia. Oh, I would never attempt to occupy all of Russia. It would seem to me that might be failed. Well, that strikes a sympathetic note with me. I, providing that you, by these other means, it turned out that you could actually destroy the whole power of Russia in the field. But you do feel, don't you, Mr. Baldwin, that today, I'm, that Russia could overrun Europe if they started out to do so? Yes, I do, Senator. I think that is, of course, the basic problem we face now, how to prevent that. Well, now, you aim at a much less drastic solution than most people are discussing nowadays. You don't think of a march to Moscow. You don't think of the devastating kind of bombing that some people imagine. You think of this bombing around the edges, these attacks around the edges. What purpose would you have in view? You spoke of objectives. Don't mistake me, Mr. Schaaf. I don't mean bombing around the edges. I said the use of land power to seize air bases around the edges. The bombing would go to the heart of the Russian oil refineries, for instance, wherever they might be located, and would devastate the Russian communication system. But I certainly am not in favor of the indiscriminate bombing of cities. Well, if you had an airport in Turkey, we'll say, defended by American troops, what's to prevent the Russians from wiping that airport out if they've got an airport not so far away that undertakes to destroy that airport? It's quite conceivable they could do it, Senator Taft. It all depends, it seems to me, upon the relative power of our air forces and of our ground troops. They might conceivably overrun Turkey and seize the airport by physical means. But that comes back again to the use of land power and the use of all military force, which I think is indivisible. Well, I think it's indivisible, too. But it seems to me that what you assume is you can win a war against Russia if we finally secure complete control of the air. After all, we won the war against Germany and Japan after we had achieved complete control of the air. Japan was licked before we sent a soldier to Japan. I think it's possible we may win a war from the air alone, but that requires an all-powerful air force, and we can't afford to neglect it by setting up armies all over the world. Would you encourage revolutions within Russia? Do you think there's some hope there? Yes, I admitted that in my description, which is, of course, a vague one of how to lick Russia. I certainly think that Russian weaknesses, internal weaknesses, must be exploited. The Ukrainian minorities, the Cossacks, of course, the people behind the Iron Curtain satellite countries, many of them given proper support, use of the dropping of arms from the air, the dropping of leaders, the dropping of literature, would be allies of ours in case of war. Don't you think even in time of peace, before that war starts, we could set up a quiet organization of many of these refugees from these countries and would go back and make real trouble for Russia within the various nations that are now, where probably a very small proportion of the people really favor communism? I imagine that some small amount of that may be going on, but I don't believe that that could be decisive in peacetime unless there was outside pressure also exerted against Russia. Well, I talked to Bill Donovan the other day, who ran the OSS in the war, and he said there just is no intelligent operating head here for that kind of warfare against Russia today, and that there ought to be. And it seems to me that I fully agree. I think the whole question of propaganda, the voice of America, is all right as far as it goes, but I do think that we can do a much more intelligent publicity stunt in these countries, and then there is this sabotage, not sabotage, but infiltration technique that the Russians use so well themselves that they can even succeed in a country like the United States. Presumably, we have a much better chance of succeeding in a country where probably four-fifths of the people want liberty and are opposed to communism. The ultimate purpose of this type of warfare would not be to introduce democracy into Russia, or would it? I should think that if we started to determine the exact type of government that is going to succeed the communist government in Russia, that we would be starting to fight an almost unlimited war. I should think our first purpose ought to be politically to destroy Russia's offensive capacity, and secondly, I would say free the Iron Curtain countries, Eastern Europe, from Russian domination. I would not, and I agree fully with Senator Taft, in this ever attempt to fall out occupation of Russia. I think if we accomplish those first two objectives, just one final point, if we accomplish those first two objectives, I think it would probably automatically mean the overthrow of the present communist government in Moscow. Yes, I don't think we can set out on this ideological basis of telling people what kind of a government they have to have. That's not our purpose. Our purpose is to reduce them to a point where they're no longer a threat to the peace and security of the world and of the United States. And if the Russian people then themselves don't see fit to change their form of government, well, that's their concern, as far as I'm concerned. May I make one other important point, Mr. Sharp, which I admitted in this idea of what kind of a war we should fight, and that is that my first premise is that we must defend Western Europe. Unless Western Europe is defended, if Western Europe, for instance, should be overrun within the immediate future, we would lose all the things we're trying to defend there, because regardless of whether we liberated it or not, whether we bombed Russia intensively or not, I believe that when the peace came, there would be a triumph of extreme political views of either the right or the left. Western Europe couldn't afford to be a battlefield again, be overrun, dominated by Russia, without going right or left. And we have to defend Western Europe. Well, I'd like to defend Western Europe. The question is, how big an army is necessary for that purpose, and where is it coming from? How big an army do you think you ought to have to defend Western Europe, Mr. Baldwin? Well, I think that depends entirely upon how large an army Russia has, and I think we tend to overemphasize... They say 175 to 200 divisions, which are smaller, of course, than ours. I think we tend to overemphasize what Russia can do. We talk about are overrunning Western Europe, the Middle East, Turkey, Greece, the North Africa. Yes, but they have the choice of doing one or the other, and supposing they choose Western Europe. Then how big an army must you have to defend Western Europe? I think probably the one in which General Eisenhower has engaged from 45 to 60 divisions, eventually. We haven't got it now, and the problem is now. Don't you think the European nations will have to put up most of that? I do. I do. And if the... And I... But another thing that is curious to me is where we're going to defend Western Europe. Where is that point we're going to defend Western Europe? The line, you mean? Yes, more or less. I know, General... The line or the elbow... Oh, yes. Yes, I... I think that again depends on the number of divisions. The type of defense that is feasible today might be nothing but the defense of the Brittany Peninsula by the divisions that are there now. But... If all you ought to maintain is a toehold in Europe, why don't you maintain it in Turkey? I didn't... It's a lot easier than... than trying to maintain Brittany. Up to now, your picture of the war has been lots less disturbing than most of the pictures we get, but we're getting into the question now as to whether it's really a likely possibility whether this thing can happen. Whether we can fight a limited war? Yeah. That's in the laps of the gorge, it seems to me. It would take strong men with high purpose and with a very great sense of future political objectives of the country and the world to hold our strategy to such a limited war given the provocations of actual oil and oil. Well, I say, I... I'm willing to try it, but I don't really think you're going to get that question decided, Mr. Sharp, until the... until the war actually starts, and I hope it may never start. What we have now is mainly the question of deterring. Detering Russia. There, I think, the sea air... sea thing... sea and air is the biggest deterrent. I have no objection to an army in Western Europe, but I think that if you're... if that's going to be a successful army, it must be with the enthusiastic support of the people who are defending themselves. They have more people than we have. Sure, but I want it understood because I think it's an essential condition of success that they do put up a majority, a great majority of that army, and that's the only reason that I think we should not make that our major American project, a European land army. Don't you think American troops in Germany are a deterrent to war? Well, I think they're a deterrent to war today only... the number there today only in the sense that that Russia knows that if they attack them, they're going to find themselves at war with us all over the world. They're going to have atom bombs thrown at them. That's what I meant. But then the Atlantic pact, we have already undertaken to do that, whether there are any American troops there or not. Maybe if the troops are there, it'll make them think we mean we will keep our word, but we'll keep our word. I haven't any doubt about that. Even in your picture, Mr. Baldwin, you have these forces in Germany retreating to Brittany, I believe. Oh, you're talking about as of today. I'm talking... I was talking in a different time tense. As of today, it's quite obvious we haven't got enough troops to defend Western Europe. There's no question about that. I think we'd all agree on that. Now, are we in great danger of an attack, in the opinion of these gentlemen? Well, I have... I have no information, Mr. Sharp. My view has been, from just talking with all the people that I've talked with from Europe and elsewhere, that the chances are against the attack. After all, the Russians, for five years, have held their own troops to the point of zone of influence that we gave them at Yalta. They have not moved beyond that zone of influence, as far as I know, at any point. And yet, they could at any time. Probably have overrun Europe. They haven't chosen to do so. There has been a deterrent. It hasn't been land troops in Europe because there haven't been any. It's been, perhaps, air, perhaps their lack of desire for that form of spreading communism. Perhaps they like another form. In any event, I think it's fair to say that the conditions today are not very different from these last five years. And so I think the chances are against their making an attack. But we have to provide for the possibility. Mr. Martin? Before I try to answer that, let me just say that I think that the real deterrent in the past and the real deterrent in the future is not only air power, and perhaps not primarily air power in our prior monopoly of the atomic bomb, but American industrial power and strength and American ground troops. But as to the chances of an attack, I think a planned attack by Russia or a planned attack upon Russia by us is certainly highly improbable. But we're in a state of tension where something can happen. And I should say the odds are against war this year, general war, but not by too much, maybe 55-45. Well, I, well, you have our answer. But as far as I'm concerned, I'm going along with an increase of the army by approximately 400%, or 300%, anyway, from a 13 billion army to a 50 billion army. I agree there's a threat. Mr. Baldwin sometimes said that the Russian economy is so weak as compared with ours, for example, in oil and steel and in transportation. But it's preposterous to think of a Russian attack. You don't go so far as that. I certainly won't buy that. It was the same thing we said about both Germany and Japan. You remember, it was said that Japan couldn't fight a war because you only have seven million tons of steel production. She fought a pretty good and tough war. You think the Germans, the Russians have been stocking? I don't think there's much doubt that they're not only stockpiling, but also, above all, they can funnel so much more of their production into military, purely military, uses and weakens. But you agree that they probably failed that in a long war, those resources would be insufficient against the United States and that's the greatest deterrent, probably, to their starting a war. They might be successful for a while, but they're not confident of ultimate success. I would think they're afraid of losing a war, ultimately. And on the other hand, Senator Taft, you're reminding us that we're not all powerful economically. We can't stand any rate of expenditure. No, that certainly is true. And particularly in time of peace where it's a much more difficult job to, um, because you can't, in the World War, what did we do? We permitted the currency to depreciate 10% a year, a steady increase in prices, inflation all over the country. We stopped every building of every school building in the United States. We stopped every progress in every other line. Simply to fight the war. Now people will not do that in time of peace. You can't maintain their determination to that point or prove to them the necessity of it. And so, in time of peace, we're much more limited. We can't, in other words, put this, turn this country into a garrison state and have a 10 million man army ready to strike the minute the war occurs. You have to do what you can to see that you have a completely, your own position defended, uh, and are free to build up the ultimate kind of, uh, army, navy, and air power you probably have in all-out war. What kind of a budget would it take to maintain an establishment comparable to that of the last war? Well, the last war took half the, half the total national production which was then about $200 billion a year. $100 billion took for federal, federal purposes and, uh, I think this one would probably be $150, half the present $300. How much twice what we have now? Three times what we're, what we're contemplating. I would, I would share something to tell you's to worry about the eventual soundness of our economy under any such strain. As a member of the Hoover Task Force Committee on the National Defense, I remember we've warned about the dangers of Russian victory through bankruptcy and I think they're certainly trying to upset our economy as much as they can. On the other hand, I submit we are not in a time of peace and that extraordinary measures are required. Now the whole thing is... Well, this budget, oh, I think, I think, uh, this $75, $80 billion budget we're going to have to have is extraordinary. I agree with that. It is even more than what I saw referred to in the paper yesterday as a state of normal emergency. And I tell you... Now you gentlemen both agree that there's something more we can do. Let's not, let's not give the impression we intend to stop just here. Is there anything more we can do in the Far East, for example? Have you, ideas about the controversy that's in the morning paper and was in yesterday's paper about the steps to be taken with relation to China? Senator Taft? Well, my great problem in Korea is how we ever win that war or end it. I, uh, I haven't, uh, seen any solution. I don't think the administration has proposed any plan, and in the absence of any such plan, I think General MacArthur's plan is worthy of consideration. Are you in favor of having a bomb in the mainland? Well, I would, I would say this. I'm in favor first of, of releasing Chiang Kai-shek, of arming, uh, his troops just as far as possible and letting him, letting him engage in raids on the, on the mainland, tie up with the guerrillas, make just as much trouble and diversion, uh, to withdraw communist troops from Korea. I think that, uh, such a course is, is obvious. I think it's ridiculous to permit American boys to be attacked in all-out war by Chinese communists and not use weapons that are, that are immediately at our command. Now, whether we should go on and bomb China, I think that would be more likely to bring the Russians in. I think that, uh, could be held in reserve for the present. Mr. Baldwin, you've been on for most lately. Do you think Chiang's troops will help us? Uh, before I answer that, may I make one big point. What more can we do? And I think that one of the big things we can do is to get rid of the idea that, uh, things have settled down, everything's much better than it was in the dark days of December. I share some of the apprehension that certain public figures have expressed about the state of mine in the American public. I think we've got to get used to living in a state of half war, half peace. Now, as to the Far East, I would agree with some of the things Senator Taft has said. First and foremost, I'd continue the war in Korea as long as we were exacting casualties as ratio of 9 or 10 to 1 and as long as we're tying up the fire of the Chinese communist army. I would not bomb in Manchuria as yet, and unless the safety of our troops required it. for the sole reason that I think it would be not only politically in Chinese communist air power and perhaps Russian air power and therefore, deprive us of the military advantage. I would certainly build up Formosa starting immediately. The big lesson to me that I got out of my trip there last year was we must use Asiatics to fight Asiatics. And I think that is the biggest lesson we have to learn. I agree because this, why are the Chinese communists attacking as I don't think the satellite countries in Europe would ever attack. They're attacking because they're attacking the white man to drive him out of Asia. That's the way the picture appears to them. And it seems obvious to me that we must have Chinese on our side. Mordwyn, you sometimes hear great skepticism expressed about what Chang's men could do in China now or in any immediate future. Do you think anything could be done within the year with them? Yes. I think there's been a lot of oversimplification in there. There is a potential on Formosa. So far it's only a potential. There are many things remaining to be done. But unless we start, they can't be done. And a big start should be made now. They could conduct raids. The Nationalist Navy could carry out a limited blockade of Shanghai as it was doing before last June. And the Nationalist Air Force could carry out some raids against the mainland. Also commando-type raids. Six months to a year from now, those troops could be well-trained and well-equipped. They're not ready now. We ought to go back around the world, I suppose. Senator Taft, would you do anything about Yugoslavia and Iran? I'm afraid I'm not prepared to say any more apparently than the administration exactly what should be done in case of a Russian attack on those countries. I think we should do whatever we think we can get away with. My only limit on the action against the communists, expansion of communism, is to do those things and plan to do those things which are practical. Do you think we could state the position that we were going to maintain there? Well, I think first we can state a very clear position vis-a-vis Germany and Japan. Re-arm them. See them re-emerge as great powers. Restore some balance of power in the world. As far as Yugoslavia is concerned, I certainly would tend to re-equip that army and make it clear that if the Russians used force to eliminate Yugoslavia, they would have to be fighting the West. You would strengthen our position in the Mediterranean, Mr. Volga. Very definitely. The Mediterranean is a weak link now, it seems to me, and the whole Atlantic Pact area. Well, I agree to that. It seems to me that an attack on Russia, the attack on Russia, can't come from Western Europe. The attack on Russia should come from the Mediterranean. And in any war with Russia, we ought to be prepared to be on the attack rather than constantly defensive. We are in very general agreement that something more can be done if war is not imminent. We hope foreign policy will avoid the necessity for a war. We are in a strong position in case war does come and that we can expect a victory. We hope a victory not only in war, but in winning the peace. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on How Can We Best Defend America were Robert A. Taft, United States Senator from Ohio, Hanson Baldwin, Military Analyst of the New York Times, and Malcolm Sharp of the Law School of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion on How Can We Best Defend America contains the full text of the discussion and reprints of Senator Taft's recent speech on military aspects of our foreign policy. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37, Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. To repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week the roundtable discusses Is Freud Up to Date? Be sure to hear the views of Dr. Ernst Christ and Professor John Dollard of Yale University in this unusual roundtable discussion. May we invite you to join the new roundtable home study courses in Human Rights, World Politics, and Economics in the Modern World. These courses are open to all and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago roundtable Chicago 37, Illinois for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, three 24-volume sets of Encyclopedia Britannica are awarded to the students in the three home study courses most successfully completing the course in that month. Today's program originated from WRC, Washington, D.C. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is an NBC public service presentation. Tonight, Richard Widmark stars on Theater Guild on NBC. Thank you. Thank you.