Listen to this important message by Mayor Vincent R. Impelletari. I have designated the week of September 23rd to 30th as Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases Week to focus attention on the magnitude of chronic diseases which affect many thousands of New Yorkers. Because facilities for the care and treatment of the chronic sick do not meet the need, we must support existing institutions which are helping those afflicted with chronic diseases. The Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases in Brooklyn is one of the largest voluntary non-sectarian hospitals of its kind in America. New facilities have been open for medical research, rehabilitation, and for treatment of such conditions as cerebral palsy and rheumatic fever. I appeal to the people of New York to observe this week and thus help their fellow citizens who are victims of chronic conditions. Please send your contribution today to the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases, 86 East 49th Street, Brooklyn. Thank you. Very good. Listen to this important message by Mayor Vincent R. Impelletari. I have designated the week of September 23rd to 30th as Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases Week to focus attention on the magnitude of chronic diseases which affect many thousands of New Yorkers. Because facilities for the care and treatment of the chronic sick do not meet the need, we must support existing institutions which are helping those afflicted with chronic diseases. The Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases in Brooklyn is one of the largest voluntary non-sectarian hospitals of its kind in America. New facilities have been open for medical research, rehabilitation, and for treatment of such conditions as cerebral palsy and rheumatic fever. I appeal to the people of New York to observe this week and thus help their fellow citizens who are victims of chronic conditions. Please send your contribution today to the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases, 86 East 49th Street, Brooklyn. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.