During the past few weeks, while members of Congress have been debating about renewing the existence of the Office of Price Stabilization, and about the nature and extent of the powers that OPS should have, studying and studying about the increase in prices that has occurred during the past year, and trying to decide what are the best ways of stopping it. Actually, this serious and rapid increase in the prices of nearly everything is nothing new. It has been going on since 1946, when wartime controls over prices were removed by Congress. What has happened since Korea is simply an increase in the speed with which, and the extent to which, prices have risen. The cost of living went up 10% from June 1950 to May of this year. But it had previously risen 30% from 1946 to June 1950. We may disagree about some parts of this question, but one thing is certain. Rapidly rising prices benefit almost no one. Most of us suffer greatly from an increase in the cost of living. Especially is this true of the many millions of people whose incomes cannot be increased, or can be increased only a little over several years, or increased much later than the rise in the cost of the things we buy. The causes of rising prices are many and varied. So also, the ways and means of preventing or stopping a rise in prices are several. Some, like restricting our purchases under present conditions to only what we need, and refusing to buy at inflated prices, are things we can do as individuals or members of neighborhood groups. Others, like increased taxes and restrictions in the use of credit, are actions that banks and portions of the federal government can adopt. Self-control by buyers modifies one of the big causes of increased prices. Credit restriction and increased taxes operate in the same direction. Each of them helps to stabilize prices. Setting limits to increases in wage levels, now provided in the federal wage stabilization program, helps keep prices down by making it possible for manufacturers and middlemen to bring the supply on the market at lower cost, and still make a profit without raising prices. Direct price controls, which are now in effect under the Defense Production Act, passed last fall, and currently administered by the Office of Price Stabilization, operate directly upon all prices, making it illegal for prices to be increased beyond the ceiling, regardless of the forces generated by demand increasing out of proportion to the supply. Also, since a large fraction of all prices received by one business are costs paid by another business, a ceiling price set on one product keeps down the cost of raw materials for another, and thus helps make possible lower prices to all of us as consumers. So price controls affect all prices directly and some prices indirectly. Ceiling prices on everything sold in this country were set in early February by the General Ceiling Price Regulation. Since that time, a number of individual regulations governing the prices charged for particular products have been issued by OPS. Under these special regulations, particular industries have their ceiling prices set some lower, some higher, than under the general regulation. From February until the present time, prices have been held within these ceilings by all businessmen, except those few who may have violated the regulations. Such violations are being discovered, and the people through the federal government will compel violators to stay in line or suffer severe penalties. The result of these price regulations to date has been that the previous rapid rise in prices was halted in early February. On the average, wholesale prices have fallen slightly since then. Retail prices have risen only slightly since February, with such increase reflecting previous increases in wholesale prices. This whole process is called stabilizing prices. Stabilizing does not necessarily mean lowering prices after they have risen, as they did from June of last year to February of this year, until price ceilings were imposed by OPS. Of course, beef cattle prices have been rolled back and can be rolled back further without going below the point of parity. The present prices of many other products, which increased more than others from June 1950, can be rolled back without discouraging increased production. This will be done soon, unless the American people acting through Congress forbid it in the new Defense Production Act. Stabilizing does not necessarily mean stopping all price increases. In cases where producers or distributors are losing money or receiving abnormally low profits because of existing price ceilings and continued production is threatened, the price ceilings can and will be raised. In other words, stabilizing prices does mean two things. First, stopping almost entirely the rise in prices that was going on and would have continued without price control. Second, bringing individual prices into the kind of economic balance they had before Korea. This means rolling back some prices and raising others slightly. We started out to ask ourselves why complete price controls are necessary under present economic conditions. We found that we had to spend several minutes first in being sure that we all have the same understanding of the nature of price stabilization, the nature and extent of ceiling prices set and administered by the Office of Price Stabilization, and the relation between ceiling prices and other measures which help to stabilize prices. In this analysis, of course, we have already found part of the answer to our question, for to describe ceiling prices is to show how they help stabilize prices. Some individuals and representatives of some industries have recently sought to prove that setting and enforcing ceiling prices is not necessary in order to secure price stabilization. Such people either mean something else by the words price stabilization, or they are misstating the facts. In World War II, we did not get stabilized prices until ceiling prices were imposed under OPA. Within three months following the removal of price ceilings in 1946, wholesale prices increased 16% and retail prices more than 10%. With brief and minor interruptions, prices continued to rise from then until June 25, 1950. From that time until February of this year, wholesale prices increased 18% and retail prices 10%. These increases since Korea did not stop until after OPS had issued the General Ceiling Price Regulation. We have recently heard a number of suggestions that price increases can be controlled or prevented without price controls by using only increased taxes and control of credit. A little analysis of these measures will make it evident that, although such measures will help, they cannot accomplish the result without price controls. For increased taxes will sop up only a small part of the increased volume of spendable dollars which are being released to consumers today. This is so because, first, the great bulk of the increased volume of dollars is going to people with small and medium incomes less than $6,000 per year. Considerably less than 30% of this will be taxed, even with the higher rates now proposed. The rest will be competing for scarce goods with the incomes that existed last year and are continuing this year. And second, some of the people added to the labor force will be working part-time and their new incomes will be small enough to be subject to little or no taxes. Yet the combined incomes of several million such people can be a powerful force to push up prices of food and clothing. And third, even those who had fairly high taxes before and who are going to pay at even higher rates in the future will, most of them, receive substantially higher profits, salaries, bonuses, etc. Only a part of these increases will be taxed, even though a substantial part. The rest is spendable. And fourth, many people, particularly small businessmen, are influenced by higher taxes to spend more in directions that come under the heading of business expense, entertainment, travel, and the like. This is bound to happen to some degree this year and next. The result? More spendable dollars pressing on prices. We must remember that income taxes have to be levied on a uniform basis within each income group. There is no way to single out those whose incomes, or part of them, are new and price dangerous. Consequently, the increase in tax rates must be moderate as compared to the size of the increased volume of dollars that requires sopping up, since so many people in all income groups will have little or no increase in income. Therefore, increased taxes just can't sop up more than a small fraction of the new spendable dollars. This is graphically shown by the gap between the 10 billions per year of new taxes President Truman has requested and the more than 30 billions per year of increased defense spending, which will occur after July 1, 1951. What shall we do with the more than 20 billions left over? Should this be allowed to push prices up and thus be spent? Or should we keep prices at or below present levels and permit much of these 20 billions to be saved by their owners for future spending? Another widely advocated measure for avoiding inflation is control of credit, and substantial measures of this sort have recently been put into operation under the administration of the Federal Reserve Board. It is proper to ask whether credit control alone or in conjunction with increased taxes can accomplish the needed results. Wisely planned, well-enforced credit controls are markedly helpful in reducing what would otherwise be the full effect upon prices of the greatly increased volume of spendable dollars coming into the hands of consumers as production is increased. This is true both in the field of housing and in the market for automobiles, refrigerators, furniture, and other household appliances normally sold on intermediate or long-term credit. To the extent that the higher down payments and the shortened periods of repayments result in fewer purchases, to that extent, the tendency for prices of these products to rise is held in check. But note the phrase prices of these products. Credit controls cannot help keep down the prices of those products commonly sold for cash. The latter constitute the great bulk of all commodities and include those most important, such as food, most types of clothing, and rented housing. Further, these items represent the greater portion of the budgets of those millions of families with average and below-average incomes. not only do credit controls not keep the prices of such goods from rising under current conditions, but their indirect effect may actually stimulate still a greater rise in prices of food, rented shelter, and clothing. Several millions of families prevented by credit controls from buying that new automobile, home, television, radio, refrigerator, etc., this year thus find themselves with the old-size down payment available for spending on something else. This added volume of spendable dollars is augmented by the future income that would have been devoted to installment payments. This will amount to several billions of dollars more per year than would have been spent on soft goods if credit controls on hard goods were not in effect. These added spendable dollars are in addition to those already considered, resulting from increased employment and increased wages not sopped up by added taxes, all available for spending on scarce goods. Credit controls are good, but they can't do the job alone. As we think through the problems created by the defense emergency, with the many forces that tend to raise prices far and fast, it is evident that the battle to stabilize prices must be fought with all four of these tested weapons, increased taxes, credit controls, wage controls, and price controls. Thank you.
