Our theme tonight is engineering's new responsibilities for human wealth. We're speaking to you from the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel here in New York City. The occasion is the announcement dinner of the Columbia University Engineering and Center Fund campaign. The fund is launching its campaign this evening to seek the needed financing for the proposed $22 million engineering center at Columbia University. The engineering center will combine teaching, research, and practice in engineering and the fundamental sciences on both undergraduate and graduate levels to a degree never before achieved. The plans also provide for an institute of advanced engineering science and a division of cooperative research in engineering. And now we're going to take you to the speaker's table here, where the first speaker will be the Honorable Herbert Hoover. Mr. Hoover will be followed by Dr. John R. Dunning, Dean of Engineering at Columbia University. That portion of the program will conclude our broadcast time. The Toastmaster here at the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria is in the midst of his introduction to our honored guest, the Honorable Herbert Hoover. And in just a moment, we'll take you to the speaker's table. The Toastmaster is Mr. Felix E. Wormser, General Chairman, Engineer Center at Columbia College. And now to the speaker's table, the Honorable Herbert Hoover. Mr. Chairman, my friend, I'm very grateful for your generous reception. It seems appropriate for me to speak here. I was once a non-resident engineering professor in Columbia University. I gave a course of lectures that had all of the wit of calculus, all of the humor of a triolibite, and the joyousness of thermodynamics. Somebody remembered that about ten years later and paid me with an honorary degree. That entitled to me to be on the alumni list for solicitation of funds and support. Columbia. We're here to promote a great project in engineering education and research, a project of national and worldwide importance. Now, not all of you are, especially in the radio audience, are engineers. And thus some have perhaps heard me declaim about that profession before. So this is, however, an opportunity not to be neglected, even if I repeat a little. Now, men never lose the love for the profession to which they have given years of their lives. The recollection of its joys is the more vivid if one has backslid on the slippery path of public life. Within a little more than my lifetime, the training of engineers has risen from apprenticeship to a trade, or in the secondary technical schools, to the dignity of a university-trained profession. It was the American universities who pioneered the world in that breadth of training and endowed the profession with its present great dignity. As indicative of the distance that engineers have risen in public repute, I might recall that some years ago, while crossing the Atlantic, I took my meals at the same table with a very cultivated English lady. As we came up in New York Harbor, she said, I hope you will forgive my dreadful curiosity, but I should like awfully to know what is your profession. I said I was an engineer. Her involuntary exclamation was, Why, I thought you were a gentleman. And I have the feeling that even yet, these pure scientists look down on the engineers a little as being something earthy or at least very subsidiary. You will be hearing from some of them later. As a profession, engineering has both joys and sorrows. The engineer has the fascination of watching a figment of his imagination emerge with the aid of science to a plan on paper. Then it moves to realization in cement or metal or energy. Then it brings new jobs and new homes to men. And then it adds to the security and comfort of these homes. That is the engineer's high privilege among all professions. The profession does, however, have some woes. His work is out in the open where all men can see it. If he makes a mistake, he cannot, like the doctor, bury it in a grave. And he cannot, like the architect, obscure it with trees or ivy. He cannot, like the lawyers, blame it on the judge or the jury. And he cannot, like the politician, claim his constituents demanded it of him. Nor can he, like other public officials, change the name of it and hope the voters will forget. And, unlike the clergyman, of course, he cannot blame it on the devil. But worse than that, if his works do not work, he's damned. That's the phantasmagoria that haunts his nights and dogs his days. If he goes to bed wondering where the bugs are that will inevitably appear to jolt its performance, he awakens at night in a cold sweat and puts something on paper that looks silly in the morning. And the world mostly forgets the name of the engineer who did it. The credit goes to some fellow who used other people's money to pay for it. But the engineer himself looks back on the unending stream of goodness that flows from his successes with a satisfaction that few other professions can know. Most people are not aware of it, but the engineer is also a political and economic as well as a social force. I asserted one time that he was the fellow who really dissolved monopolies, redistributed wealth, and dismantled political platforms. Over our history of one generation after another, men have been elected to office by being sequently again the monopolies of canals and railroads and anthracite coal and kerosene oil and slums and private development of water power. They were no doubt great evils in those localities. But I ask you, who really remedied that evil? It was the engineer. He upset the canal monopoly with the railway. He upset the railways with the automobile and the airplane and the pipeline. He upset the anthracite monopoly with coke. And he upset the monopoly of kerosene oil with the electric light. He assured that most of the streams would remain scenery by making cheaper power with steam. And who makes the escape from the slums? It's the engineer with his parkways and bridges and his satellite towns. And who provides their leisure for the housewife to play canasta and attend political meetings? It's the engineer with his household gadgets. And sometime, the engineer will be needed to put a little truth into public propaganda. But I'm getting off the track of amiability. And I can assure you, it's the engineer who redistributes wealth by creation of mass production and his many other devices to reduce costs and thereby brings the prices of a thousand gadgets to the level of everybody's pocketbooks. And thus, all men become equal before gadgets. The training of engineers instills character in those who would join its ranks. High ethical standards are the essential of all professions, engineering included. But technology, without intellectual honesty, doesn't work. Construction without conscientiousness soon crumbles. Those are the reasons that you have had no engineers before the kickover committee, nor in the headlines of these days from grand juries and district attorney's offices. In the main, engineers appear in public only on juries. And now, after all that exposition, you surely will agree that the engineer is an antidote, antidote to evil, and he is the bearer of blessings. And I hope you will agree that he is worthy of your attention. For here we meet a great national problem. We do not have enough engineering teachers. We do not have enough students to carry on the nation's work. We do not have enough research facilities to assure the needed flow of new inventions and improvements from the work of our pure scientists. Our engineering graduates have dropped from 50,000 in 1950 to 38,000 last year. And we need 60,000 a year to supply our national need. And might I depart from our immediate purpose to make a suggestion on the side? One reason for this drop is that a young mechanic with three years of training during which he was paid all the time can earn more take-home pay after taxes than a young engineer with six years of training and three years more of experience. Too often the financing of such training is too expensive for his dad. So could not more somebodies give some scholarships to needy boys who are willing to put in nine years with little reward? And that, my friends, is one of the purposes of this extended work in Columbia. But to return to our immediate mission here, you're proposing not only aids to education, but also research. research. The job of the engineer is to take the discoveries of pure science and convert them into use for the good of mankind. To that end, he needs laboratories. At one time, we got our inventions from the genius in the garret. And poverty, however, does not clarify thought, nor does it provide a laboratory. And bread-and-butter diet has been discarded some time ago as the mother of invention. Today, these gifts come from long years of organized search and experiment. Therefrom, like cell-by-cell growth of plants, fact builds upon fact until there comes forth the blossom of discovery, the illuminating hypothesis, or the great generalization. And finally, it finds its fruition in a multitude of inventions and improvements. And it increases the power of the people to pay government debts. But again, I must not stray from the path of amiability. However, this reminds me that there is but one road to rapid recovery of a nation from such a burden as our present rearmament. That is to increase our productive power by new technologies and new inventions. And that is one of the purposes of this expanded institution. And there are spiritual consequences from research. From that comes the unfolding of beauty, the ever-widening boundaries of thought. And here is the invocation of veracity in a world that is sudden with intellectual dishonesty. From its discoveries comes the lifting of men's minds beyond the depressing incidents of the day. And here is the confirmation of a supreme guidance in the universe far beyond man himself. Today, the nation needs more and more research and more and more engineers. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hoover. Before introducing the next speaker, I believe Dr. Kirk has a brief announcement to make. Dr. Kirk? Thank you. Mr. Hoover, I have a very pleasant task to perform. Over the years, your fellow engineers at Columbia have, of course, taken great pride in your distinguished career and in the fact that you have had association with them on the Columbia faculty. And on their behalf, it gives me the greatest pleasure to present to you a small token of their respect and of their very great and enduring affection. Well, I have a great question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As a Columbia alumnus, I could easily be accused of prejudice in anything I might say about the next speaker. Therefore, I should like to read, by way of introduction, a statement by one of our guests here tonight whom I will introduce to you later, Lieutenant General Leslie R. Groves, whose own leadership of the nation's atomic energy program during the war makes every American his debtor. I quote from General Groves' statement, I have known this man since September 1942 when I was placed in charge of the Manhattan Project for the development of the atomic bomb. I have never forgotten the impression I received upon first meeting him at the Columbia Atomic Energy Laboratory. At that meeting, he demonstrated the ability, foresight, and courage which have been outstanding throughout his connection with atomic affairs. At Columbia, he was the chief nuclear physicist on the scientific development which was the foundation for the construction and operation of the gaseous diffusion plant at Oak Ridge. This plant, which separates U-235, is the one which operated so efficiently from the very first. This man was a pioneer in neutron experiments and has remained in the front line of those in the atomic energy field. A field which is, has been, and will continue to be of the utmost importance to our country and the world. Since DJ day, he has directed, among other things, the erection of the 400 million electron volt cyclotron at Nevis, Irvington on the Hudson, the cooperative endeavor of Columbia University, the Atomic Energy Commission, and the Navy. This man has demonstrated that he is an engineer, a teacher, an administrator, and a scientist. He has youth, vision, leadership, and an unusual warmth of spirit and personality. Under his direction, the Columbia University Engineering Center should meet all the hopes which we all hold for it. Nothing could be truer than General Eisenhower's statement at the time of the announcement of his appointment as a dean. We simply picked the man best fitted, signed, Leslie R. Groves, Lieutenant General, U.S. Army, retired. I give you Dr. John R. Dunning, Dean of the School of Engineering. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Hoover, distinguished guests, alumni and friends, these are times when the shortages of engineers are uppermost in everybody's mind. I'm reminded of one story that's told of a high school boy who thought that he would like to be an engineer but was not quite sure what the qualifications were. So he took up the Encyclopedia Britannica and read in volume 8, page 442, that the qualifications of an engineer quote, include intellectual and moral honesty, courage, independence of thought, fairness, good sense, sound judgment, perseverance, resourcefulness, ingenuity, orderliness, application, accuracy, and endurance, unquote. After a short period of self-examination, the young man decided to become a taxi driver. Now this evening, as successful engineers and a great many of you Columbia engineers, I am sure that all of you possess all of those qualifications, as well as the equally necessary technical knowledge and experience. Beyond that, as engineers in this modern world, I am confident that you have all of these qualifications and beyond that, a sense of responsibility for the welfare of mankind. This dynamic world that we live in demands the very highest level of professional excellence in bringing the latest discoveries of science into practical use. The engineer today is the link between science and the world of industry and practical affairs. On one hand, he is the engineer scientist with his feet in the laboratory. On the other hand, increasingly, he is the engineer leader as the top management posts of American industry become more and more occupied by engineers in this steadily increasing scientific age, where a recent survey indicated that in the top 600 corporations in this country in the last 15 years, the trend has gone so far that about 40% of the presidents and chairman of the board of our American corporations are now engineers. engineers. This illustrates what President Hoover so well put that the engineer is living in a world of increasing responsibilities. And in these momentous times, the engineer bears a high social responsibility to see that the advances he pioneers serve the common purpose of society and contribute to the better life for every man everywhere. It is in a broad sense up to him to participate in the industrial, the educational, the political, and the spiritual life of our times. And he must be, above all, a leader capable of seeing that his and helping his fellow men as well as himself to live and to work successfully in this complex civilization. whose broad knowledge of the world around us and of man himself is the basis of our continuing progress. As has been remarked, the Columbia Engineering School was the first school of engineering to be established within the framework of a great university. It pioneered in the broad training of engineers in more than mere technical subjects, but rather in the broad fields of the liberal arts, the social sciences, and the humanities. Now, through the vision of the new engineering center, which Columbia men for many years have dreamed and thought, we are making a new step forward not only in broadening and furthering the training of engineers in all the highest levels of the profession, not only in strengthening our work in the basic sciences, but at the same time taking full advantage of our unique situation within a university, with our close relationships with the arts and the social and political sciences, and with the professional schools such as business and medicine within this university in the city of New York. And here, in this city of New York, the world center of industry, of management, and of research, of growing political, and of great cultural leadership, we have the ideal place for an engineering center. The trustees, the faculty, the alumni, and the friends of the university all see clearly both the responsibility and the opportunities we bear here in this situation. We shall do our very best to live up to them. The present need for the engineer scientist is worldwide. And sound engineering is absolutely essential to the future of this whole free world as each day our survival and our life become more dependent upon technological and scientific progress. American engineering today inevitably occupies a position of world leadership. The burdens and the after effects of the war have laid a heavy hand upon both engineering and science. in the world as a whole. It is our responsibility to see to do all we can both to broaden the training and the education of engineers among ourselves and among our neighbors who seek to strengthen the whole free world. Columbia University is proud to have the largest number of students from other countries of the world of any university. and we are proud that Columbia engineers whatever their origin have always taken the world as their field of action. But the quality of our engineering leadership in education and research and in practice is a major factor which must move steadily forward in this world picture of today. Whether we like it or not the pressure of world events forces the United States to assume its leadership in every phase of its life if we are to build for peace and prosperity. The free world today is challenged as never before. We must meet that challenge by demonstrating that our way of life offers the most to the individual and our system promises the highest standard of living with the maximum degree of freedom and dignity of man. But make no mistake mere political promises of democracy and freedom are not enough. The explosive situation we face in the world today in the Far East in Iran in Egypt can only be met by a broad approach which couples freedom with a great effort to raise the standards of living to raise the production of the basic requirements of food and clothing and shelter and with decent public health. In a country like Iran where the lifespan is still under 20 years very little different from what it was in the Stone Age mere political freedom is not alone the answer. The challenge of a brutal totalitarian force and bare materialism can be answered only by a great scientific and technological and industrial effort on a world scale which at the same time is rooted firmly in this in spiritual appreciation of man's desire for freedom and for dignity. In this country our good life has to have been to a very large extent been based upon production increasing production by free men. We have combined men materials and machines to achieve the highest production in the world and the freedoms that in turn that we enjoy in this country are possible in the last analysis only because we have this background of science and technology and production which make it all. They are possible because to a large degree we in this country use energy rather than slave labor to do our work. Due to time limitations we must regretfully conclude at this point the remarks of Dr. John R. Dunning. This broadcast has originated at the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel here in New York City. The occasion has been the announcement dinner of the Columbia University Engineering Center Fund campaign which is seeking the needed financing for the proposed $22 million engineering center at Columbia University. The speakers were the Honorable Herbert Hoover and Dr. John R. Dunning Dean of Engineering at Columbia. The Toastmaster was Felix E. Wormsere General Chairman of the Engineering Center Development Fund. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system.