Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In 18 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year. 100 years of service to the nation and to the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, what should I do in an A-bomb attack? Our unrehearsed, give-and-take discussion will center around the danger of an A-bomb attack and the means of defending ourselves against it. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Earl H. Blair, Chairman of the Committee on Emergency Medical and Surgical Services for the Chicago Civil Defense and the Chicago and Illinois State Medical Societies. Victor C. P. Dreisky, Vice President of the J. Walter Thompson Company and Co-Director of Chicago Civil Defense. Dr. Andrew C. Ivey, Vice President of the University of Illinois and First Vice Chief of the Emergency Medical and Public Health Services with the Chicago Civil Defense. And Colonel Charles T. Tench, engineer with the Fifth Army, a man who has seen the damage of the A-bomb at Hiroshima. Now, I should like to open this discussion, gentlemen, by asking whether there is any real reason why we should be concerned about an A-bomb attack. How do you see that, Colonel T. Tench? A year ago, almost to the day, the President of the United States announced that the USSR had succeeded in producing an atomic explosion. It would be mere wishful thinking, therefore, to make any assumption except that the A-bomb is possessed by powers other than ourselves and our allies. Well, do these powers have their means, Colonel, of delivering such an attack on us? It is known other powers possess B-29-type aircraft. Operating from their own territory, such aircraft are capable of flying one-way missions against any target in the continental United States. While many would be intercepted and shot down, it is impossible to guarantee 100% interception, particularly at the outset of hostilities. Dr. Ivey? Dr. Colonel, I believe that it is an element of stupidity to underrate the potential capabilities of a potential enemy. It seemed to me that we must be prepared for any sort of an attack by a potential enemy. We have a military expression for that, Doctor. Do we say that we must always base our planning on the other fellow's capabilities rather than his intentions? Now, if these bombs are delivered by aircraft, Colonel, can you set up a radar screen of some sort that will give us warning, at least, even though we can't intercept them? Yes, we can expect early warning, but radar cannot guarantee 100% interception any more than fighter planes can guarantee 100% interception. Now, don't we know that to be a truth from the experience in World War II? We had radar screens over in Europe, didn't we? And a determined attack always got through, at least to some degree. Well, if these bombs were to be sent our way, would they necessarily come by aircraft, Dr. Ivey? They could come in by guided missiles. I'd like to hear what the colonel has to say about that. Intercontinental guided missiles carrying atomic warheads, I would not say, are an immediate danger. However, seacoast cities must consider the threat of guided missiles launched a comparatively short distance off the coast by enemy submarines. But isn't it possible that some of our enemies may have something in the way of a guided missile that we don't know anything about now? That's always a possibility, Doctor. Could these A-bombs, Reisky, be brought in here by saboteurs? Yes, indeed. We just don't have to fear the fact that they might be brought in by airplanes, but they could easily be delivered by freight or brought in on vessels and ships that might touch our shores and that sort of thing. They also can be assembled here. An A-bomb could be delivered by express or almost any way in pieces or brought in trucks and then assembled and placed in some area with a timing device that would explode the bomb anytime within as long as six months. Do you think that possibility of sabotage is a real factor to be reckoned with? I think it's as real and as important to reckon with as the dropping of an A-bomb by an airplane. I think it's part of the plan. Mr. McBurney, I should like to say that Dr. Bundason and Dr. Blair and I were discussing that possibility just this last week in reference to a mobile radio detecting unit that has been made available. And if they take the radioactive materials and bring them in and put them down in a deep cellar, then a detecting apparatus can travel around on the streets and you wouldn't be able to detect it. So we have to be constantly alert against sabotage from that particular source. Now, I don't mind saying, gentlemen, that in our preliminary discussions of this subject and in terms of what you're saying now and proposed to say, all of this presents a pretty grim picture. And the question that naturally comes to my mind as a layman is simply this. Why haven't we done more about it if this danger is as real as you men seem to think it is? What would you say to that, Dr. Blair? Dr. Blair? For the past three years, the American Medical Association and the United States Medical Society have been very cognizant of this problem and have done something about it. Upon the explosion of the first atomic bomb, the medical profession individually and collectively saw the potential job they had to do in case this energy were employed in a warlike manner and began to make plans to alleviate medically. Yes, Mr. McBurney, the doctors and scientists and many people in the military have been fully cognizant of the potential dangers to us from the use of atomic power as a weapon of warfare. But it's been difficult for us to interest laypeople in this possibility, and I think that is based upon a fundamental psychological trait of human beings, and that is they don't like to think about the unpleasant or to prepare to prevent the unpleasant from occurring. You know, if you've ever been with a group of soldiers getting ready for combat or getting ready for going over the top, it is always the other soldier that's going to be wounded or going to be a casualty, and it's not yourself. And that represents the natural human tendency to try to avoid thinking about the unpleasant. But here's a situation where we have to work and hope for the best, but be prepared for the worst. Do you think this A-bomb is as destructive a weapon as the people generally have been led to believe, Dr. Blair? No, I don't believe so. This is a new weapon in warfare, and naturally a bit of leftist thinking or overemphasis on the destructiveness and the large masses of casualties has followed. I don't believe that, well, we know that the A-bomb is not as destructive a weapon as we've been led to believe. Well, just how destructive is it, anyway? Well, I agree with Dr. Blair that in some articles that have been published in magazines, the destructiveness has been overrated. For example, the objective of the emergency medical service and public health group of the Chicago Civil Defense Organization has set up as a definite objective to prevent death among the casualties to the extent of 75%. And I have the cold figures and facts to demonstrate that if we organize the medical services properly, and if the people of Chicago will cooperate, that we can reduce deaths among the casualties by 75%. So a great deal can do be done about this. Having seen Hiroshima, I have a terrific respect for the destructiveness of the atomic bomb. But we must make the point, as you have, Doctor, that had Hiroshima been prepared, a great many of the casualties there might have been saved. Well, now, our listeners may or may not know about this Dreisky simulated atom bomb attack on Chicago. But had these three imaginary bombs been dropped on Chicago, what would have been the measure of the casualties and the type of damage done, anyway? Well, I, uh, we have a great many figures here because when the problem was given to us by the National Security Resources Board, they listed right on the problem the number of casualties we could expect in the dropping of the bombs in the three different locations. We were also given a list of the amount of damage that would be done to the physical side of the thing. That is the number of stores and buildings and what other destruction might take place. And then we, of course, set out to protect ourselves and what, and next week we will start telling people what we did as a result of those bombs. To try to give you actual figures at this time regarding the extent of the physical damage would be rather difficult to do. It takes a long list of figures as I have here, but perhaps Dr. Blair has the, uh, the, uh, number of, uh, casualties. How many casualties would be, would have been involved in that kind of an attack, uh, doctor? The two air and the one ground burst would have created a total of, uh, 214,000 casualties. That includes the dead. Uh, the, uh, dead would have numbered, uh, 71,000. The, uh, subsequent deaths during the following six weeks would be approximately 100,000. Now, are these, uh, data given on the, uh, assumption that we have made proper precautions? Yes, exactly. And that's just what I would like, should like to emphasize. That regardless of the enormous number of casualties, we can save, uh, the lives of 75% of them. Um, by the sort of an organization that we have set up, uh, plan to set up here in Chicago. And to, uh, get the people to cooperate with us in this plan through the process of educating them and telling them what to do. Well, now, uh, before we go into that plan, and I'm, I'm interested in it. Uh, tell us this. What, what happens when one of these, uh, bombs explodes, uh, Drysky? What, what, what kind of, uh, casualties do we get? What kind of damage? What happens? Well, first of all, within an area of about, uh, one mile of ground zero, which, uh, which indicates the exact center of the bomb. That's where it hits. Yes, yes, yes. Well, that's, uh, that's the ground point of where the bomb, over which the airburst might have occurred. Everything is, uh, practically completely destroyed. Beyond that, we have varying degrees of destruction. Largely affected by the type of, uh, buildings and, and the, uh, by that I mean whether it's a concrete building or a stone and, uh, and, uh, steel or, uh, that sort of thing. Windows, of course, are, are, uh, blown out of buildings to as far away as five miles. But there begins the, uh, evidence of dissipation of the effect of the bomb. What are the, the, uh, hazards? Can you tell us more about that, uh, Dr. Blair? Well, I think when we, uh, when we, uh, realize the forces released by the explosion of an atomic bomb, we can get a better picture of it. Uh, at ground zero, there's a wind velocity created by this explosion of 800 miles per hour. At one mile distance from, uh, ground zero, the wind velocity is 200 mile an hour. And still at two miles distance, the, uh, wind velocity is about 70 mile or hurricane speed. Uh, there's a great deal of heat and blast damage and, uh, a great deal of damage from flying glass. Uh, the, uh, the injuries to the individuals would be about, uh, 85 percent burns and trauma. Uh, then the, uh, remaining 15 percent would be radiation sicknesses. Yes, in this three bomb, hypothetical three bomb attack on Chicago on September the 18th, there were 35,000 cases of, uh, radiation disease, uh, produced. Now, what can we do about that? Uh, this is what we can do, uh, when those people, uh, when the individuals, uh, come out of the bombed area who've been exposed to this radiation hazard, they will be studied to see if, how much radiation they have been exposed to. And then they will be sent to certain refugee centers where a blood count will be made on them at every week. And in that way, we can, uh, check on the early onset of this disease and give them blood transfusions. And then in that way, save the lives of many of them. Well, now, do we have an overall, uh, civil defense plan against these, uh, these tragedies and these emergencies, Dreisky? In the Chicago area, we do have such a plan. Uh, parts of it, like the medical department, has been in the process of development for over two years. They have been concentrating in the development of their plan for the past year. Well, now, is this going on all, going on all over the country? No, no, no. I, uh, I feel that, uh, we're one of the very few cities that is as far advanced in the development of a civil defense plan as we are. Are we far advanced because we think we're a prime target? Well, first of all, yes, we are the prime target. Uh, that is, I, it is, it's, it's evidenced, of course, that, uh, it would be a pretty nice thing for any enemy to wipe out any part of Chicago with the many resources that it represents. But, uh, besides that, uh, we, we were started on this by American Alley, uh, Medical, for instance, well over a year ago. And the present civil defense committee established about three months ago. And he has just kept after us to see that we, uh, proceeded in the development of the, uh, of the overall plan, which involves, of course, a great many thousands of people, the police department, the fire department, the public services, engineering, communications, and all that sort of thing. And, uh, we have reached a splendid state of development today. So much so that I believe we could take a bombing today, right this minute, and do a very creditable job. What's the role of the Army in this, uh, kind of a program, Colonel? Colonel, in wartime, the primary mission of the military services is to prosecute the war against the enemy, and to bring hostilities to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. I think it advisable to emphasize that our peacetime readiness, of which we are very proud, to lend assistance to civil authorities and disaster relief, cannot be counted upon in wartime, because of the necessity to concentrate on our primary mission. But I think, Mr. Dreisky, you might be interested in some of the things that the military services can do. We will furnish you guidance as to which areas are most likely to be attacked. We will furnish you information as to anticipated form of attack. We will furnish you decisions on certain passive defense measures, for example, blackout, dim out, camouflage. We will warn you of a pending attack. And finally, we will render assistance, where possible, in the event of war-caused disasters, upon request by proper authority. And again, I emphasize, where possible. Well, Colonel, in that regard, one of the first things that the medical division did was to ask representatives of the Army and Navy and the U.S. Public Health Service and Red Cross to meet with us to see whether or not they could help us take care of an atomic, bacterial, or chemical attack on the city of Chicago. And we were told just exactly what you said. For example, the American Red Cross is set up legally to take care of peacetime disasters, or the sort of disasters that are characteristic of peacetime. And here is a situation where the people in a community themselves has to organize and be prepared to take care of an attack of a potential enemy on them. In other words, we have to get back to the basic philosophy of the American form of government, where the community itself has got to assume a great deal more responsibility than it has in the recent past. We can't expect George to do it. We can't expect Washington to do it. We've got to do it ourselves. That's right. If we're at war, we're going to be expecting our military to be prosecuting the war someplace else. We don't want them at home taking care of us. I think, Dr. Ivey, you're exactly right. It's our job, and we've established that understanding and relationship with the military. We will assume our part. And if they happen to be here or whatever facilities are available at the time, and of course their facilities and manpower changes from week to week and day to day. Here at Great Lakes, here at Fort Sheridan, the population of men change constantly. And I think it's proper that we set it up on the basis of helping ourselves. You're exactly right. Well now, what kind of mobilization is required in the part of the medical services, specifically Dr. Blair, to take care of a crisis of this sort, of all these non-fatal casualties to which you were referring a few minutes ago? Well, I'd like to bring the, uh, bring the matter of, uh, care down to the individual in his own home. Uh, the medical assistance he has been able to have in the past will not immediately be available. One of the five points in the program of the Chicago, uh, and Illinois State Medical Societies, and Chicago Hospital Council, and the Chicago Civil Defense Organization is the matter of self-help. Someone in every household should take the American National Red Cross First Aid training course and become proficient in it in order that he might give assistance to himself, his immediate family, his neighbor, and if that area in which he lives escapes injury, he would therefore make himself available to the medical personnel in support of their efforts to alleviate the sickness and injury. Well, are you suggesting that we wouldn't have enough doctors to go, uh, to go around if, if this thing really were to hit us? No, I'm not saying, uh, not saying that at all. We have enough doctors, we have our plan worked out so that, uh, we may even have a few to spare. Yes, in that particular area we plan to, the, the dentists are cooperating with us, the osteopaths, the chiropodists, the veterinarians, uh, everybody who has had any sort of training in taking care of, uh, injured people will be mobilized into this plan that we have here in Chicago, which includes the training and mobilization into teams and the indoctrination in drills of 102,000 Chicago citizens. I should think that, uh, Dr. Ivey, that panic would be one of your, your greatest problems if these bombs were to explode over us. Yes, and that is point number one in our educational program. We have to, uh, educate the people of Chicago and every place to stay put in their house in the case of an A-bomb attack. There are a number of reasons for that. For example, the streets are going to be blocked by the police because the streets will have to be used by those who are going to save the lives of the 75% of the casualties as a result of the blast. Then furthermore, they, everybody knows, if they stop and think about it, if they rush out in the streets, they'll block the streets themselves. Then furthermore, uh, there will be some radioactive dust thrown up and it'll take 15 or 20 minutes for that to settle. And if a person like that would get out in the street without proper protection, they would inhale a lethal dose of that. Then furthermore, a mist may be thrown up, a radioactive mist, and they would inhale that. Then around 30 to 45 minutes, there occurs, after the blast, there occurs a radioactive rain. And they have to stay in for that reason. Now, so that's the first principle. Now, the second principle is to pay no attention to rumors. As everybody knows who reads the newspapers, one of the tools of the communists is to create confusion. And they do this by rumors. For example, a mild attack of dysentery or diarrhea can be converted into plague or cholera by rumors. So we can't pay any attention to rumors. The purpose of any enemy in delivering an attack of this sort against us, Doctor, would be to destroy or diminish our capacity and our will to resist. Now, if he can bring about that effect by panic and massive evacuation just by threatening us with an atomic attack, he can affect his purpose without ever having to drop the bomb on us in the first instance. Yes. Those are some of the very important subjects to be handled by our recently formed public information committee. That committee is preparing to take these memorandums that we received from you, Doctor Ivey, and you, Doctor Blair, recently, and break them down into language that can be understood by all of the ages of people in our schools, as well as parents, telling them what to do, and we hope to complete a really intensive plan of education so that people will do the proper things in the event we are attacked. Now, this discussion suggests two questions. First, several references have been made here to bacterial warfare. Now, what does that have to do with an A-bomb attack, Doctor Ivey? Well, we're always exposed to certain infectious diseases or contagious diseases after any sort of disaster, such as tetanus infection of the wounded cases, the coming in of typhoid and of smallpox. And in order to do that, we have to immunize the people against tetanus and typhoid and smallpox, and that's one of our plans. But now, the bacteria can be used for sabotage. But I should like to tell everyone that the medical division of the Chicago Civil Defense has already made recommendations, which are now being implemented to prevent sabotage on the bacterial front and other fronts. Well, how would that be conducted? Through the water system? Through food contamination or what? Yes. If it were to be done. Yes, those and there are other ways against which we have set up agencies to prevent sabotage. For example, one is rats. We're going to have to eradicate the rats. They're not only a pest, a dangerous pest after an attack, but they're also a dangerous pest insofar as sabotage through disease is concerned. We've got to eradicate the rats and flies. But I want everyone to know that protection against sabotage in all the areas where sabotage might be used is now in process in the city of Chicago. Well now, Dr. Blair, precisely what ought a person to do in the event of an A-bomb attack? Let's say he's had a 30 or 40 minute alert. What advice would you give to him anyway? I think he should seek cover in a sub-basement or the cellar of his own home or behind as much earth or building material as he can and stay under cover until the dust fallout has occurred and until the radioactive rain has fallen. Do you think you ought to make any effort to get out of town if he's got a warning? No, no. That's the last thing to try to do. Let him get, as Dr. Ivey said and as Dr. Blair said, let him get inside and stay inside and keep close to a wall with his face to that wall, the strongest part of the structure that he may be in. And be prepared for flying glass and all sorts of things flying around at tremendous speed and with great damage. We must emphasize that point about avoiding panic because there'll be a number of these alerts. There'll be dozens of alerts in the wartime. Do you think you ought to provide shelters of one kind or another, Dreisky? I think so. I think the building of individual shelters is inexpensive. It's simple. That is, shelters for this type of bombing. And I think it, I know that it's part of our plan to recommend the construction of shelters by homes. Well, gentlemen, this discussion has presented, I think, a pretty grim picture. But as one of you, I believe it was Dr. Ivey, who put it earlier, we can hope for the best, but we'd better prepare for the worst. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Should I Do in an A-Bomb Attack? Printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed may be purchased for 10 cents and coin. A subscription may be obtained for one dollar for the next four months. Two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Earl H. Blair, Victor C. Dreisky, Dr. Andrew C. Ivey, and Colonel Charles T. Tench. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand presents a discussion of the peacetime uses of atomic energy. Our guests will be Farrington Daniels, former chairman of the board of governors for the Argonne National Laboratories and professor of chemistry at the University of Wisconsin. George Granger Brown, director of engineering with the Atomic Energy Commission. Sydney D. Kirkpatrick, editorial director of chemical engineering and chemical industries. And Paul E. Klopsteg, director of research at the Northwestern University Technological Institute. We invite you to listen next week for peacetime uses and problems of atomic energy. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Frank Babcock. This is the Mutual International Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
