Farm safety is important to all of us. Accidents are one of the heavy farming costs that many farm people in all parts of the country can cut. Every year we pile up a huge total of losses due to farm accidents. Loss of lives and limbs and time and money. Admittedly some of the missteps which lead to some of those accidents are hard to explain from the reports we get, but many confessions of victims in wheelchairs and hospital beds seem to indicate that foresight and care might have prevented many, if not most, of those accidents. Our Department of Agriculture engineers have suggested a number of safeguards many farmers can build into their farming operations. Other experts tell me it is not unreasonable to suppose that if the American farm people really set themselves to the job, they could reduce our farm accident rate by at least 10 percent in one year. A little simple arithmetic shows what that might mean. Statisticians of the National Safety Council estimate about 17,500 farm people killed by accidents each year. About 1,500,000 disabling injuries and accidents and fire losses amounting to nearly one billion dollars. So if we can reduce the accident rate by 10 percent, we will save 1,750 lives, prevent 150,000 disabling accidents and save about 100 million dollars. To make such a savings, individual farmers will have to make their farming as accident-proof as possible. To that end, I ask United States farmers to learn and to follow farm safety rules. Friends, farm safety, like freedom, is everybody's job. For everyone in the United States is affected directly or indirectly by accidents to farm people. And these accidents can happen anytime. So National Farm Safety Week is, and should be, only the highlight of year-round activities to keep farm residents from being killed or injured in accidents. The President of the United States set the 1950 goal of this campaign when he officially proclaimed National Farm Safety Week. The goal is to persuade the all farm people to learn and observe farm safety rules. An approach like this should get real results, since most accidents to farm residents involve some violation of a common sense safety rule. After all, safety rules are simple things. Things like keeping walkways and steps in good repair, or stopping a machine before unplugging, oiling or adjusting it, or knowing and obeying all traffic laws, or using the right tools for the job, and making sure those tools are in good condition. And kept in a safe place. It is my hope that all farm residents will learn these rules during National Farm Safety Week, and put them into practice every day of the year, in order to hold down the farm accident toll. During Farm Safety Week, we have some special duties. On Monday, we are called on to think about accidents that happen in the farm home. Tuesday, the program puts the accent on handling farm animals safely. Wednesday, farmers will consider the pride that often goes before a fall. They'll admit that they have been lucky so far. They'll fix the wrongs in the old ladder, or put a guardrail around the opening in the loft, or otherwise protect the places about the farm where workers may stumble into trouble. Thursday, Thursday, Thursday, Thursday, Thursday, Thursday, and Thursday, Thursday, and Saturday, comes a review of the many causes of farm accidents. All of this emphasizes that farming is a very varied business. Farmers have many different jobs. They have many different ways to get hurt at different times of the year. Neither Congress nor your legislature can legislate safety. In the many operations on the farm, farm people have to be just a little more alert, just a little more careful, just a little more orderly, and just a little more foresighted than people in most other lines of work. The best hope for safer farm living and an accident-free family, as I see it, is for each individual to consider carefully the hazards on his or her farm, and do everything possible to reduce those hazards. The National Safety Council, and the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Agriculture, and the Department of Agriculture, have given us fifteen simple farm safety rules. In following those rules, you may think of still other ways you can make the old home place safer. Every good wish for your personal welfare. Friends, National Farm Safety Week probably is the most important single factor in making farm residents more safety conscious the year round. It has acquainted them with a serious accident problem among farm people, and has demonstrated that something can be done about it. Reports from Kansas, Ohio, and Wisconsin, for example, show a definite and consistent downward trend in the number of accidents among farm residents. These reports are based on surveys conducted since National Farm Safety Week was conceived in 1944 by the National Safety Council. We feel that similar reductions have occurred in many other places, although no adequate reporting systems have been set up as yet in other states. But in 22 states today, there are permanent year-round farm safety committees. And the remaining states have set up temporary committees each year to promote National Farm Safety Week. So we are now able to say, we are making progress in our fight against accidents to farm people. However, we must not let down in our efforts to make farm life safer, happier, and more prosperous. If every farm family will take advantage of National Farm Safety Week, and learn the common sense safety rules of living, and obey them 52 weeks a year, we will make even greater gains against accidents. Nearly all of us know some farm people who have suffered severely as a result of disobeying some common sense safety rule. On the basis of past records, the National Safety Council says that unless farm residents learn to obey farm safety rules during the next 12 months more strictly than ever before, these things will happen. One out of every 17 farm people will suffer a disabling injury as a result of accidents. Death caused by accidents will occur in one out of every 380 farm families. Accidents will kill on an average of 48 farm people today. And accidents will result in a disabling injury to some farm resident every 19 seconds throughout the next 12 months period. This means nearly five persons in the short space of time I'm talking to you. These things should not happen. But they do point out the fact that farm safety is a phase of farm life that cuts through at all levels. This in turn emphasizes the fact that farm safety deserves the united support and cooperation of all national farm organizations. We are all concerned with the social, cultural, and material welfare of farm people. This being true, we want to make good the efforts of National Farm Safety Week all through the coming year. I believe that the theme selected for this year's observance of National Farm Safety Week is one of the best we have ever had. It simply says, learn and obey farm safety rules. Remember, farm accidents are a deadly crop. Let's plow them under. This is Burl Ives, friend, singing and speaking for the National Safety Council. The bullet was gentle, so farmer Bill thought, until with his back turned, poor Bill he got caught. Now please heed this story, with bulls take care, for a bull that you trusted can go on a tear. And how. A farm safety week is a good thing on any farm. For instance, it's a good thing all the time to take proper precautions with bulls. Even one that you think is 100% harmless. Keep a strong bull pin and always use a staff and ring if it's necessary to handle the critter. So friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety for the rest of your lives. This is Burl Ives singing and speaking for the National Safety Council. Friends. I built me a cabin on a mountain so high. I married my Sally the last of July. She climbed on a table, too tidy a shelf. The table it buckled, now I live by myself. A farm safety week is a good thing on any farm. For example, it's a mighty good time to think about how safe a housekeeper you are, ma'am. The National Safety Council says, falls are the leading type of farm home accidents. So use a ladder when you have to climb up to reach something. And get rid of all the trippin' and fallin' hazards around the house, too. So friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety the rest of your lives. This is Burl Ives singing and speaking for the National Safety Council, folks. My pal is in trouble and brought his folks harm Because he was careless at work on his farm He bought him a tractor, it gave him great pride Till poor guy he backed her while standin' alongside A farm safety week's a good thing on any farm. For example, it's a mighty good time to think about how safe a farmer you are. Do you always stop machinery before unclogging, oiling, and adjusting it? And do you keep all guards and safety devices in place? Well, you ought to. So friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety for the best of your lives. Friends, this is Burl Ives speaking and singing for the National Safety Council. Down here where I live, the folks are all wise. They keep their ears open and also their eyes. They know and they follow the safe farming rules. They say that the reckless are nothing but fools. A farm safety week's a good thing on any farm. For example, it's a mighty good time to learn and obey farm safety rules. At home, at work, in traffic, and at play. And practice these rules every day in the year. The life you save may be your own. So, friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety for the best of your lives. Folks, this is Burl Ives singing and speaking for the National Safety Council. Out on the prairie lived Lightman Joe Wood. He always worked fast and he sometimes worked good. But now he's not working. He fell on his head at the foot of old Smokey. He's at rest in his bed. A farm safety week's a good thing on any farm. For instance, it's a mighty good time to think about how safe a farmer you are. You know, falls are the leading type of farm work accidents. So don't clutter up your steps and walkways with rubbish or anything else that you might trip on. So, friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety for the best of your lives. Friends, this is Burl Ives singing and speaking for the National Safety Council. Here's a sad tale. On top of old Smokey, in the springtime just passed. I lost my true lover. She was driving too fast. She hit about 80 when a front tire blew. And death took my lover, my lover so true. And the farm safety week is a good thing on any farm. For example, it's a mighty good time to think about how safe a driver you are. You know, when you slip behind the wheel of a car, you have a big responsibility. Learn and obey all traffic rules. Drive carefully. So, friends, will you follow this tip from Burl Ives. Stay tip top for safety for the best of your lives. To come down a regular battle of여ting Heil when a bag seen immorality room.