Good evening ladies and gentlemen. A subject very much in the news these days is that of guided missiles. Much about these, Robert Wenders, is quite a mystery to us. To unravel some of this mystery, International Interview presents this evening a man very much in the know about ballistics, guided missiles, and all things spatial. He is Robert F. Mello of the U.S. Army Ballistic Missile Agency, located in Huntsville, Alabama. As personnel director of a specialized agency, Mr. Mello heads a nationwide program that reaches all areas of the United States for its highly skilled resources, with their performance having untold far-reaching effects, literally and positively speaking. The Army Ballistic Missile Agency was established in February 1956. Here is taking place the development of the Redstone Missile Program and the Jupiter Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile. One of Mr. Mello's associates there is Dr. Wernhard von Braun, a noted space expert who developed the Z-2 rocket for Germany during World War II. Here to interview Mr. Mello on his new science and his fast potentiality in future satellite and space travel are a group of news correspondents representing the leading newspapers of foreign countries. They will now introduce themselves. This is Jan van Gontraal of the Belgian News Agency. Charles Lynch of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. I am Sven Amann of the Dagens Niehecer of Stockholm, Sweden. How about the first question from you, Mr. Armand? Well, Mr. Mello, our moderator spoke about a subject that is veiled in mystery to us. I'm very much afraid that it will be veiled in a certain amount of mystery even after we finish with you, because we all know and recognize that there is such a lot of things that have the stamp of secrecy on them in your field of activity. So perhaps to clear the air, could you first explain to us a little what about your agency you cannot talk about and what you feel you might help us learn more about? Well, you're correct, Mr. Armand. There's quite a bit we can't talk about. However, being a personnel man, there's a lot I wouldn't know about some of the things, even if I could discuss them. But we can discuss what has been accomplished there, the status of the missile program in rather general terms, and what it is going to lead to, and also the people who are connected with this program. Well, who are some of the people you have down there? We understand that a good many of the German technicians who worked on the V weapons during the war are at Huntsville. Is that correct, sir? Yes, that is true. Dr. Wernher von Braun, who is probably the best known, having been associated with, among other things, the Disney series on outer space, being a technical director in that program, and his associates from Pinamunda, who originally developed the V weapons, are there. At least 120 of them are. Do you feel that they've made any great strides beyond the V weapons as they should at the end of the war? For example, we've heard that the Redstone is a development of the V-2. Is it much of a development? Well, it is, from the standpoint that the V-2 was the first real ballistic-type missile that was developed, and the Redstone is actually an expansion of the techniques learned in that development program. And have they gone beyond that? What is the...we've heard of the Jupiter missile. Can you tell us something about that? Well, the Jupiter missile is presently being developed. It is the intermediate-range ballistic missile that travels within the 1,500-mile range. It is now being developed in its initial research stages. The Redstone has about reached the point where it is being weaponized, and that's what they are doing now. It's been used as a test vehicle for the Jupiter. But intermediate-range, how far are the range? What are the limits on that? 1,500 miles is considered your intermediate range. Mr. Mello, do you have reason to believe that the Soviet Union is ahead of the United States in the race for guiding that missile? Well, I really have no way of knowing. I wish I could answer that. I think we all wish we knew. But really, I don't know. Mr. Garen? When you say that you are in the initial stages, as far as the intermediate-range missile is concerned, what space of time do you visualize until you have entered a more practical stage concerning that? Well, that's very difficult to answer. I believe it would be difficult for the actual scientists down there to answer, because there is so much to explore. They have reached the point now where they have actually tested the development. But how far it is going to go and how long it will take, I'm really not able to say. But it is in the foreseeable future, and when I say that, I would imagine within a matter of a few years. What about the argument that you sometimes heard, that this is a waste of time, that there is, after all, the intercontinental missile with an even longer range that everybody aims at, and that just fixing your efforts this way might just slow up development? Well, that might be a better question for a man who is a military tactician. However, the intercontinental missile, just like any other weapon, has its place, as does the intermediate-range missile, and the short-range missile. And I must assume that the people who have made a decision, these will be developed, find them necessary. Mr. Menlo, do you have any shortage of personnel in trying to develop this missile missile? Yes, we do. We have shortage of well-trained personnel. We've managed to fill our vacancies through a rather aggressive recruiting program, part of which has taken place in the immediate region in New York. And we have been able to hire people, but it has been a major effort. There are, there is a great shortage of top-notch men in the missile field. You have to dig them out, and that's what we've been trying to do. But we have been reasonably successful. You said a little earlier that you weren't sure where we stood in relation to the Russian missile program. I wonder where the non-German people who are working with you down at Huntsville stand in relation to the German people. Are the top experts in the field still the men from Tiena Munda, or have others come along, Americans or what have you, who are now their equals in the knowledge of this field? Oh, there are others who have come along. As you know, there is an original group of 125 of them, as I said. There was actually about 140. Some have left for industry, and some have gone back to Germany. But the agency now stands at a personnel of 4,100. And in the development operations division, where these groups exist, there are 3,100 people. So you can see where the group has expanded from its original Cadbury into rather an aggressive and well-trained group. This has taken some time. When you look for recruits, do you look in the aircraft industry, or who has the initial knowledge to enable them to enter this field? We don't particularly look at the aircraft industry. That type of an individual is, of course, acceptable. We are looking for people who are well-trained in basic sciences, the sciences of metallurgy and electronics and astronautics, which is the new term that has come for space travel, and the fields of heat treatment and things like that, all of which were concerned. In that connection, Mr. Gmello, do you feel that your difficulty in finding and recruiting the proper features is not only because of competition from others who also want them, but from some shortage in the actual training of qualified engineers in this country? There seems so much to talk about it. You should know. Well, Mr. Altman, you've hit on a subject that I'm quite interested in. I recently gave a talk to the Kiwanis Club here, and the subject of my talk was the need for more training in the elementary school to bring these people along so that they will be equipped for this advanced technology that our guided missiles are showing us, because certainly they are portraying things in the future that we cannot ignore. If they are doing that, then we must have a nucleus of people who can carry this development on and who can operate these machines and produce goods and services of the future. What would you suggest of an improvement in our mental school education? Well, I believe that there should be more emphasis on the basic sciences. I think our electric system in the United States is a wonderful thing, but every now and then it needs a little push here and there. I believe that the children or students, I hesitate to call them children since they're growing up in the race field, but the students need to be motivated to understand the contribution they can make to the study of sciences. I don't mean everyone must be an engineer or a scientist. No. This training will equip them better for the technology of tomorrow. Parents must take more of an interest in what their students are doing. You would be surprised at how few people know what their students are actually taking in school. You mentioned that you're having some difficulty in recruiting people to build these missiles. What do you anticipate you'll have when you try to recruit people to get into them and go out into space? That's a very good question, and one that I'm free to answer because we don't build things like that. However, this is a step in that direction. I recently discussed this with Dr. von Braun and Ernst Schoeninger, two of the greatest exponents of outer space travel, along with Professor Oberth, and I asked Werner von Braun if he felt he would have trouble equipping the first spaceship. And he says, good heavens, no, we're now getting priorities already, and we haven't even started thinking about it. There are a lot of people who want to go. Well, I know that would be one of them. Well, there's another aspect to this, and that is that I have a boy who's Christine whose ambition is to be a jet pilot. Now, his great fear is that by the time he's old enough to be a jet pilot, which may be in four or five years, you people will have taken the pilots out of jets, and there will be no manned jet airplanes flying. That is, in the military sense. They will have been replaced, in other words, by missiles. What do you say to that? Well, there again, you asked me a question, and I don't believe I'm really qualified to answer. I've heard a lot of discussion about it, and probably you have, too, through the paper. The missile is, of course, the greatest exponent of automation that we really have today, since it goes on a predetermined course and gets there without exposure of personnel. I do not believe it is going to replace the foot soldier, and if that is true, it will certainly not replace the aircraft, although it may assume certain duties that they now perform. However, as to what effect it will have on the actual numbers of people, I'm unable to say. I don't think we're that far yet. I think we're just touching in that area where the missiles are becoming the type of a vehicle that could be used for other purposes besides weapons. Is your office also trying to find weapons which would counteract ballistic missiles, in other words, a defense against such weapons? No, the Army Ballistic Missile Agency is not. We are only developing missile, and, of course, one of the reasons for developing a ballistic missile, or the long-range type like we have now, is that because of its traveling at supersonic speeds, and at such tremendous height, it can pass any known barrier. We know of nothing at the moment, I understand, that can stop it. I don't doubt that someone is working just as hard to find something that will stop it. However, we are not concerned with that phase of the program. Do you have any difficulties in the relatively small size of the United States for testing those missiles at speeds? Well, they are tested in Florida, off the Atlantic coast, on a missile range that the Air Force Missile Test Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida, and they are all fired downrange. So far, they have had no trouble and managed to choose an area where nobody is damaged, fortunately. Isn't the idea that they are going to be tested on a range right out into the South Atlantic, somewhere up in Brazil or something? I don't know about that, Mr. Ohman. And possibly the longer range missiles will land in that area, it's possible. And when you get into the Intercontinental Missile, which runs in thousands of miles, 3,000 to 5,000 miles, I would imagine they would need that much space. But the Army Ballistic Missile Agency is not concerned with missiles of that range. Oh, may I take off on another task? You mentioned just now, in connection with Dr. Werner von Braun, you mentioned the name of Dr. Oberst. I take it that von Braun and these people who work at Huntsville are by now American citizens and working for the American realm. But how about Oberst? I thought he was still in Germany. No, he is here, but he is not an American citizen. You're right, Dr. von Braun, and most of his staff are Germans. Professor Oberst is here under contact with the government, and he hasn't been here long enough yet to apply for citizenship. He's been the old man, isn't he? He's getting along along in years. I don't know his age, but I would imagine he's in his early sixties. Mr. Merrow, there have been reports speaking to him in the press, actually. There are inter-service squabbles between the Army, the Air Force, and the Navy. Do you feel that these squabbles had effect on your personnel requirements? Well, no, I don't believe so. There have been squabbles of use, let's put it. That's your term, so I'll use it. But actually, there have been various agencies concerned with the same program, and someday there will be some of the and someday there will be a deceiving made as to which missile will be used. I believe you are aware of the recent publicity that General Medeiros, General Schlieber, and Mr. Halliday, the missile czar to the Defense Department, have been placed on a committee which will evaluate the Jupiter and the Thor, the Thor being the missile and Air Force of Chevalier. And at that time, they will decide which missile they will use or which features will be used. Controversy always causes trouble, I guess, as far as personnel needs are concerned, but it also puts it in the news so people are aware of what's going on down there. Actually, we find no controversy at ABMA. We're busy. Well, does the Air Force and M&A have a counterpart of the Army Ballistic Agency? No, I wouldn't say so. The Army Ballistic Missile Agency is the only one of its kind. The Air Force's weapon, the Thor, is being primarily developed by industry. I believe it's Douglas. I'm not sure, but they are the primary contacts involved. The research aspects of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency are being conducted by the government, by Dr. Wernherman Brown and his group. And they are actually developing the missiles and building prototype in association with our prime contractor, which is the Chrysler Corporation. We do not intend to produce the missile. We are only developing it to the point where it can be produced, and then we will drop it. Have you anything to do at Huntsville with the satellite program, the Geophysical Year, business of launching a satellite that circles the Earth? We have nothing to do with launching a satellite at all. We are going to provide the telemetry for the Vanguard project. That is the tracking device that will be used for it. But we have no mission to launch the satellite. That is assigned to the Navy, and I understand they're trying to do it. How do you do your preliminary research on tracking something that isn't yet up there? How do they use as a target for that? You are really getting me out in the left field now. Well, I will tuck in another one while you are out there. Do you believe in flying saucers? You might answer that in the answer. Do you want to know if I believe in it personally? Yes. Well, I don't know. I have seen no evidence that there are flying saucers or that there are not. But I know this, that after working with this group of marvelous scientists that are down there, that many things are possible that we have yet to see. How this affects flying saucers, I don't know. Many of the 4,100 people who believe in flying saucers. I haven't heard any of them going around discussing this object. They haven't bothered me with it anyway. Do you believe that the International Geocultural Year may have some teachings later in helping you develop the missile collection? Oh, I have no doubt about it because this is a major development in science, the accomplishments that will take place in this International Geocultural Year. The Vanguard project, the launching of this satellite, which is going to tell us things about outer space that we don't know now because it will be up in the neighborhood of 300 miles or so. We're away from many interferences. I think we're going to learn a lot from it. We are looking forward to it down there. Of course, to me, it's a wonderful thing because it's dramatic and we're trying to get the youngsters interested in things of this nature. It's also peaceful, which is not true of some of the other things you're doing down there. Do you see that the work being done in Huntsville has a peaceful connotation as well as a possibly military one? Well, of course, these are defense weapons, and defense does not imply that we intend to use them offensively. I should have said that they are related to military matters. Oh, yes, they are. I think most of our developments, the airplane, the truck, the automobile, everything, have been developed because of military requirements. This is a weapon that is being developed. It is not a spaceship at all. However, we cannot ignore the fact that it is pointing towards things that are people. Travel at supersonic speeds through outer space, interplanetary travel if you wish. All of these things can be visualized in this weapon that is being developed there. The same principle, the same concepts will go into it. They will just have to be broadened. Mr. Mellor, you have visualized them in how many years? Do you have any idea about 10, 15 years of space travel? Oh, I don't know. I think that some time ago, Dr. Stuhlinger mentioned in a lecture I attended on the west coast that he expected within the next 20 to 40 years there would be interplanetary travel. Travel in outer space, I think we will see in the immediate future. That is being done now in some respects. They are getting up in the areas of 100,000 plus feet with these supersonic planes. That is getting into the edge of outer space right now. I think that we will see that within the immediate future. By immediate future, what do you mean? I would say within the next five to ten years. But you mean manned. With people. Manned, exactly. Manned space travel for commercial use. I think that will be done. Your jetliner is going to lead you into that. Of course, I suppose it will first be done through some other means. I have no doubt that that's possible in the immediate future. And I'm not talking about going to the moon. I'm talking about going within the limits of our world today to outer space. Well, I'm intrigued. Sort of a philosophical question about all this. Do you think that mankind is going to be the better for the sort of things we've been talking about, the penetration into outer space and eventual interplanetary travel? Do you ever question it on these terms in your own mind or do the people down at Huntsville do so? No. No. I believe we are looking at this with a big deal of anticipation. The developments that are taking place down there are going to lead us to things that we do not now know. Knowledge, of course, is going to give us many more benefits. It's a matter of control. It's a matter of control. The type of control that is exercised over it and the useless to which it is put. I feel that this travel through outer space, or interplanetary travel and things like that, we might not know what benefits we'll get out of them yet, but we haven't known what benefits we'll get out of some of the developments we have today. I mean, look at our economy, I mean, it seems to be so wonderful thing. The main thing is we have to get people ready for it, as far as I'm concerned, speaking as a personnel man. We're very interested in developing these young people so that they can accept this responsibility and carry it on to its fruition. May I ask, if in that connection you are using or feeling that there is any effect from the sort of glamour feel, is there a glamour about this kind of myth because of the implications of how to speak? Oh, yes, and in my business we use glamour as an advertising tool, there's no doubt about it. However, the thing that I'm interested in is that people see the glamour that comes. I don't believe they do. I think that there is too much of this reading, writing, arithmetic, and not enough of the glamour that exists in it. What can be accomplished through mathematics, through physics and things like that? Look at what Obris people like that have accomplished, one, Brown and others. They've done it through the use of these sciences, and they are the most invigorating, stimulating group of men I have ever met in my life. They're just amazing, yeah. But Brown is very interested in young people. They're coming to them all the time. They've developed a place where they can watch the stars, there on Northampton and Huntsville, and they've done that just for their local neighborhood. They've developed so many things to help the youth advance, and that's it particular for themselves as well as children. I mean, it's a major organization they've developed for hunting. I see. And yet it must be a far try, mustn't it, from this kind of thinking and talk, which I gather goes on a good deal down there about outer space, and then close application to the detailed problems of the Jupiter and Redstone missions. Now, you must remember, we are developing a weapon. We are developing the Redstone, we are developing the Jupiter, and we will continue to develop them as they were originally intended, as a weapon. We do not ignore the fact, however, that these other things exist, and there are studies that are going on that are exploring these little off-seats that come from this development, also by other organizations besides the Army Ballistic Missile Agency. We have a research project office that is concerned with other applications of the missile or of the missiles put into this missile. This is possible. Mr. Mello, could you appraise some of the trade-racks you have made in the past ten years or so and give us some details? Mr. Mello, could you ask, well, I can tell you this much about it, as the Redstone has been developed over the past very close to ten years. And it is about completion now. It is a missile, a large missile, that falls within the Army's of another 200-mile range, that they use. Mr. Mello, could you say, the Jupiter program has progressed to the point where they have actually conducted tests on it. And we have great facilities there to do this testing, and every evidence has been given that it will also be as successful as the Redstone. Do you feel that your program could have been implemented faster, or are you satisfied with it that it has been done so far? Mr. Mello, could you say, well, it's going pretty fast. I sometimes feel like I'm on a treadmill trying to keep up with it and supply the people for this effort. The ballistic missile program, wherever it exists, is a crash program. I mean, it is being expedited as fast as possible. I believe that the government and industry are doing everything they can to speed up the development of this. And I believe that what has been done has been excellent, and I think nothing will have lost it. You would say it had been as impressive as the, uh, what the Germans did during the war. The B-2, which is the basis of the Redstone, as I understand it, was brought to production in three or four years, it's removed. Has that kind of a record been maintained since? Well, uh, if you read a little back on the B-2, it didn't come to being quite that fast. When they once decided to work on it, with all of their facilities that came into being within a short period of time, the same thing that's happening with the Army's National Agency, the Redstone is something that was going to work on for some time. Uh, that is, the principles that exist in it. The crash program brought a future Earthman a lot faster than it might have, so it's not fully supported. When we, uh, speak of a crash program, do you visualize the recent, uh, uh, Cree, as I mentioned before it, that we read about, uh, uh, uh, uh, now making a choice between the Thor and the Zuckerberg's history as an expression of this, uh, uh, feeling of urgency, that there might be a waste of effort in, uh, continuing the Cree models that are supposed to perform similar duties? Well, it was always intended that there be one, and in order to arrive at this one sooner, they allowed Cree to be developed. And now they have reached the point where the test has shown we could now try to make a decision so in case that there is any waste, or duplication of effort, I don't consider it waste, because I mean, what price is the fence there? It's effective, there's no price tag on it. However, what they are trying to do now is to decide, let's, this is it, let's do on this one or the other, or let's incorporate the best features of both. I think it's a sensible approach. I'm sorry to interrupt, uh, Cree and Duff. Do you have a motion to look at an interview with Robert Miller with the Magnificent Army's history of the agency? Thank you.