In raising the voluntary fund necessary to send the boys to Helsinki, of the $5 which you paid for the luncheon, $1.50 goes to the Olympic Fund. The door prize money, a dollar apiece, we got some flooded door prizes, that goes to the Olympic Fund. We're not a largest organization in the world, but we claim to be of the purest race, serene, as far as matters of trust are concerned. Now, the distribution of the door prizes will be perpetrated by one of the greatest athletes of all time. He didn't have time to become an Olympic athlete because he was traveling through West Point at the rate of one-fifth of a year every four years. But he ran the hurdles and he played football, baseball, if they had five letters. Well, he was never a five-letter man, but he was a four-letter man. The great football player in the Hall of Fame, Elmer Quillen Olyphant. Now, Olyphant. How do you want, Elmer? Hey, Mac, I'm a seven-letter man now. H-A-S-B-W-E-N. Did you hear about the Indian that drank so much tea that he died in his own pee-pee? Ollie! Ollie! Ollie! Now, gentlemen of the Touchdown Club of New York, and guests, we really are on the air. Before that, we were on the loudspeaker, and I used it merely as a subduing influence. The Touchdown Club of New York is a small organization. It started in 1933, and has grown in 19 years to a membership of well over 600. We are important only in that we are sponsoring this luncheon under the auspices of the of Mayor Impelitari's Olympic Committee. for the purpose of raising money voluntarily to send our United States Olympic team to Helsinki for a purpose that we who are in competitive sports will comprehend and understand. On my right hand is an absentee. Glorious in the annals of the Olympic Games, Johnny Hayes apparently was unable to be here today. He actually won the race, but apparently lost it in London in 1908. I believe some English boys helped Dorando across the finish line, but of course the award came, the award was presented to the proper winner, Johnny Hayes. And we're sorry that he's not with us today. On my left hand, Eugene Vidal, high in competition in the Olympic Games of 19, 19 and 20, second in the decathlon, I think, and fourth in, or the pentathlon in the decathlon, he rated high, an athlete of renown, a member of the touchdown club. I shall ask each person on the dial to rise and some to say a word or two. But we have three principal speakers. It is my pleasure to introduce Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Mayor Impeletary was unable to be here. Deputy Mayor Horowitz. Mr. Chairman, members of the touchdown club and their friends, distinguished guests, as the official representative of Mayor Impeletary, it is a real privilege and pleasure for me to participate with the members of the touchdown club at this delightful luncheon and to bring to you the greetings of the Mayor and his keen regret at being unable to be with you in person to extend a warm welcome. You may be sure that if it were not for the fact that an important meeting of the Board of Estimate required his presence, he would have been here. I bring you his congratulations and felicitations on the splendid activities of the touchdown club, particularly with reference to stimulating greater interest on the part of all Americans and the athletes who will go forth as representatives of this country on its Olympic team. sportsmanship is a trait of Americans. The lessons of fair play and honest competition that we learn on the sand lots and in the cow pastures of boyhood become an ingredient of character. American athletes traveling the world's pathways are ambassadors of goodwill. They give life to our precious democracy. They exemplify the very best of our way of life and our charity toward and regard for the rights of all men. You men of the touchdown club generously schedule this luncheon to raise funds for the U.S. Olympic team. The mayor, in his capacity as honorary chairman of the New York City Olympic Committee, is happy to honor you. We hope our people from all over the United States, but particularly in the New York area, will give generously to the Olympic team so that every boy and every girl athlete capable of competing against the world's best at Helsinki will be on our team. We know our Olympic officials can take no more athletes than they can pay for. They depend upon all of us for the many thousands of dollars required to transport, feed, house, train, and equip the 400-odd members needed to uphold the honor of the United States. For your information, check and cash can be mailed to Olympics, Post Office Box 500, New York 46. Just now, throughout the United States, elimination contests are being held to select the athletes of the Olympic team. Those who win the right to wear the colors of our country will come from all segments of our national life. They will have sprung from all races, all religions, all economic backgrounds. They will be fierce and determined competitors, fired with the zeal of national pride. They will be modest winners and gracious losers. We can well support them with our honors and our dollars because they are of our blood, our heritage, our aspirations. You have here some of the Olympic heroes of the past. The accomplishments of many of them are legendary. We revere the winners of past Olympics not only because they were winners but because they were fine men and women of America. For some time we have been wondering why, of all the grand sights of the world, New York alone never has had the Olympic Games. London had it twice, Paris twice, Athens twice, Berlin, but never New York, the greatest of cities. Mayor Impeletary believes that everybody in the world should have an opportunity to visit our city. Certainly the young athletes of the world assembled for the Olympic Games are desirable visitors. We want them to come here. They also attract thousands of visitors from abroad. When this Olympic committee's work is finished, the mayor plans to name a committee to investigate the possibilities of bringing the Olympic Games to New York. If Melbourne, Australia, where the 1956 Olympics are scheduled to go, for any reason relinquishes its lean, let's go after the next Olympiad. If not 56, then certainly the Games of 1960. In conclusion, in behalf of Mayor Impeletary and the people of the city of New York, may I again express appreciation to the Touchdown Club for its efforts on behalf of the Olympic team and urge everyone to contribute generously to the fund which will make it possible to send a representative Olympic team properly equipped to uphold the honor and dignity of our United States. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Horowitz. In the absence of Mayor Impeletary, I am presenting you with a Spalding J5 football painted white with the inscription from the Touchdown Club of New York, and it is not to him but to you that I present it. I'm very grateful to you. Thank you. I'm interspersing a word or two between the main speakers. It now comes to me that all through the role of military history, all the pageantry and the glory and the glitter thereof. Since 1896, a renewal of the Olympic Games, which I believe began with the run that was made by a Greek named Philippides, from the Battle of Marathon to Athens in 490 B.C. In 1896, at the renewal of the Olympic Games in Athens, we have here a man who was the first American to win that event. He won the hop, skip, and the jump, if I am correct. And Mr. James B. Connolly, if you will come and say a word. Thank you. That first Olympic meet can be disposed of in a few minutes. Some of us were knocking around, the first thing we read in the papers, there was going to be a revival of the Olympic Games in Athens. That was in 1896, 56 years ago. And every time I say it, you know, people say it must be pretty old. When we left here, they were a team from Boston, BAA, Boston Atlantic Association, and I represent a little South Boston club at Princeton under the captaincy of Bob Garrett. And we went over, there were ten of us. And we left, oh, I think it was March 23rd, and we're 16 days on the trip. We arrived in Athens on a Sunday night. We were taken on a journey ride through the city and brought to the chamber of deputies where the Germans would get up and give us the American athletes. Three hok-hok. We gave them three rar-rars. Drag a little wine. Three of us did in the team, the others in the team. They were in training, they said. So all the Connellys and the Burks and the Blakes responded to the toast. Well, we sat in there at 10 o'clock at night to allow us to sit down and have a bite to eat. And then we turned in along about midnight. We thought we had 12 days to get ready. We didn't have, but that came later. We turned in about midnight. At 4 o'clock in the morning, I think every soldier in Greece came marching by our windows. We were right opposite the palace, Constitution Square there. And every band in Greece came back and by. We had to get up at 4 o'clock in the morning. We stayed awake. And then we sat down to breakfast to try to get sleep. We couldn't sleep. We sat down to breakfast then. About 10 o'clock, committee came in to inform us with the programs. Some of us had to compete that afternoon. We thought we were going to have 12 days to get ready. But it was after winter. It was after winter. This was the spring. Some of us, I was wanted to have a spike show on since the previous October. It was all right. And the calendars. The athletic officials of that day, the officials, they had to figure out the difference. in the Gregorian calendar of ours. So we had to compete that afternoon. So we went down, we rode down. It was a wonderful sight. That stadium in Athens is a beautiful thing. It's pure white. How much time have I had? You're running over. Just say goodbye. And we turned out that afternoon. We went down at 2 o'clock. Banned the 200 pieces playing the Olympic Vickers March. As it happened, my event, I had been American champion at the Olympic Rekker Hall and hop, step, and jump. That was the old classic jump. The old days, they had no high jump or no broad jump. It was a classic jump. Hop, hop, and jump, hop, step, and jump. And I got out there and I was just fortunate. I was called out first. and I won. And I started with the team. Thank you. It gives me great pleasure now to introduce one of our most famous members of the Touchdown Club, W.W. Pudge Heffelfinger, Yale, 1891. Pudge, will you rise where you are? Thank you. Pudge Heffelfinger is a Minnesota boy just like me. He's 84 and I'm 59 and a half and I can't take him myself, so you know what kind of a bird he was and is and always shall be. Another gentleman, famous quarterback at Dartmouth, presently mayor of Maranick, at least we have one regular mayor here and one deputy, that's pretty good. And he also is the public relations for the health insurance plan, one of the greatest things ever inaugurated by the city of New York and other people. And now I hear, I hear now that he is about to run for Congress in all counties, Westchester County, and I am going out there and making a speech to both the Democrats and the Republicans. Personally, I don't think there's any difference between them. They'll elect a good American to any Congress. Eddie, will you stand up? Take a bow. On his left, Century Melstead, one of the great tackles at Yale University in Connecticut. Will you stand? Thank you. On the right of the dyes, Dr. Max Roday, a famous football player at the University of Chicago. Doctor, will you please rise? Next to him, my secretary, Mr. Edward Letty, without whom this thing could not have happened at all. Edward Letty. And next to him is Major Kincaid, a member of the Touchdown Club, who is so thoughtful and helpful as to bring Mr. Connelly here. Major, would you kindly rise? And Jack Moore, vice president of the Touchdown Club, or rather secretary of the Touchdown Club, and vice president of Lantri Perfumers. And I want to tell you, I want to tell you that his actions bely the fragrance that trails behind him. Now over here we have Colonel Alexander, known as Babe Wyon, captain of the 1915 football team at West Point, played tackle along with myself, Little Olyphant, a few other small but spirited characters that we had in those days, who, however, is here because he was engaged in wrestling competition in Olympic games, but now has written a glorious book called The Olympic Pageant, published by Macmillan, and those who don't get it won't know anything about what I know, and that isn't important, but everyone should know about the Olympic Games. Babe, will you kindly rise? Next to him, we have Leroy Campbell, a revered and honored member of our club, a former Olympic athlete. I'm sorry at the moment I don't remember the exact records. Well, in 1916, the Olympic Games were canceled. My competition was ending in 15 and 16. In 1916, the Olympic Games were canceled. His competition ended in 15, and naturally there wasn't any in 1916. But, that's, it's better to have been listed to battle than never to have been listed at all. Well, now, my greatest friend, at West Point, and there is a dash of West Point here, I invited the Navy, but they didn't come. They always come, belittedly sometimes, but this is an Olympic flavor. It just happens that I could more readily obtain. West Point graduates who were olympically featured, rather than graduates of the Naval Academy, which I respect, honor, and adore as a sister service. Some of the greatest products of our colleges and universities were never able to graduate. As a matter of fact, if it weren't for some of the boys who left school at the fifth grade, a lot of us would be unemployed today. But I am thinking of a living legend. Gentlemen, it's rare that you see a living, legendary character. At West Point, there was once Benny Havens, long since buried in the Stony Point graveyard, or Highland Falls. It makes a little difference. They're close together. But we have with us today Sergeant Martin Maher from the County Tipperary, Ireland. He came here at the age of 20. He worked as a waiter in the Minnesota for two years in 1898. He joined the Army, retired as a technical sergeant 30 years later, retired 18 years later as a civilian employee of the federal government at the age 70. On the 25th day of this month of June, he will be 76 years old. And again, may I say that I have never been able to keep up with him. But the thing that I want to mention is a great book written about him called Bringing Up the Brass. He calls the big brass by their first names. He calls the small brass by what they think they are. Snoop, Captain, he'll call him, Major. And since he helped to bring up some very important brass later to be introduced, I would like to mention again that book, Bringing Up the Brass. And anybody can obtain it by writing to me, him, Patty Gallagher's Tavern at Highland Falls, or the company that credited it whose name escapes me now, I ask to rise, and from his mouth will burst the jewel, I'm sure, Sergeant Marty Marner. Come here, Marty. Come here. This will be an Irish bombshell nutshell. Gentlemen, this is a great treat for me to be here today with this beautiful party. But I had a beautiful day of it all the way through. I was with my good friend General Eisenhower for an hour this morning, and had a grand time with an old friend. My friend here said, I call him by the first name, well I never called him anything but Ike. And I think I'll keep it up when he gets elected. now you've got to listen to some of the brass that he brought up. and some brass that is too. The first bit of brass you're going to listen to is a man who, when I joined the 3rd United States Infantry on the Mexican border in June 1917, was already known as the terror of the border. Commanded the 1st United States Infantry Division in North Africa and Sicily, led it in 12th engagement, returned to the United States, went west, trained, and returned to Europe with the 104th United States Infantry, the Timberwolf Division, that fought at night instead of the daytime. That surprised the Germans a little bit, and at one time commanded both of them. They spearheaded into Aachen, and at one time the 104th and the 1st Division were going side by side. It gives me great pleasure to introduce Major General Terry De La Mesa Allen. Terry Allen. Thank you. Now, returning again, as all militarily trained men must, to the object of this meeting, I think it was said that the ultimate object of all military training was success in battle, the ultimate object of the... Well, I'm a little mixed up there. I want to introduce to you now, Colonel Harry Henschel, vice chairman of Miriam Pilates, Olympic Committee, who is a distinguished gentleman, owns a little watch company, I think it's called Bullivan. I lost my wrist watch, and I don't know what time it is now, but if you'll come up here. Thank you, Mac. I'm not here to make a speech, I'm only here to tell you what you can do with your money. Mac here has set a good example, anybody wants to follow him, checks pay to Olympics or the U.S. Olympic Committee, care the Touchdown Club or Box 500 New York, we'll get there. We also have one very luxurious event coming on, Governor Dewey's dinner on Saturday night, June 28th, $500 a table for anybody can afford it, you'll have a lovely time, or $50 a plate, and something more in line, I think, with what most of us can afford, and that is on Sunday afternoon, July 6th, when every boy and every girl who is now competing to make the Olympic team will have arrived in New York for that weekend, the following day on July 7th, after Mayor Impeleteri gives him the usual ticker tape reception and sends him on his way to Islewild, the day before or on Sunday afternoon, July 6th, we are going to have them all at Randall's Island, the track and field men, the wrestlers, the basketball players, the cyclists, the soccer men, and all the others, they're all going to be on view in competition for the first time in history. We will be able to see on one field our entire Olympic team en route to Finland, and tickets will be $1, $2, $5, all the way up to $25. And the $25 boys can give their checks to Max here, and that also is tax exempt. God bless you and thank you very much. Thank you, Colonel Hensel. And now it's my pleasure to introduce a member of the Touchdown Club, who was heavyweight champion in 1920, light heavyweight champion in 1924, vice versa, former chairman of the New York Boxing Commission, a graduate of Yale University, and the mind went along with the physical activity, a Rhodes scholar. It's my pleasure to introduce Colonel Eddie Egan. Gentlemen, it's a pleasure to be here with you fellow sportsmen, because it seems to me that the Olympic Games is perhaps the one key to a possibility for world peace. In the old days of Greece, it was the Olympic Games that brought all those Grecian colonies together. And this is the first time that Russia has volunteered to send a team to compete at the Olympic Games. I think we're going to beat them, but it is my thought that it is this competition in sport which will do a whole lot more to bring about a universal understanding than anything else. And I hope all those here will realize that and make their contributions. I remember I've been on three Olympic teams, and we went over on the old Princess Matoika to Antwerp in 1920. It was an old battered wagon. We had poor quarters. We lived in a schoolhouse over in Antwerp, all because the American people had not supported the Olympic team. This time, let's give the boys a full support so that when they get over there, they will know that they have the full backing of this great nation backup. Thank you very much. Thank you, Colonel Egan. I agree with your thought. If we can't beat the Russians, anything they start, then we ought to be up in the grandstand combing our hair. I want to introduce the most amazing fellow, Eugene Vidal. I want Gene to tell a little story about how he and two other Olympic athletes broke the records of mountain climbing in Switzerland. Eugene Vidal. This is a bit unexpected. Mac asked me if I wouldn't tell this story. I said I thought there was a lot better ones, but I was on Olympic team. In fact, I was over on three trips that Egan was on. Following one of them, we had a tour for Olympic rugby team. We toured Europe and playing teams every Sunday. On this one weekend, we ended up in Zermatt, which is a little town on the border, Italian-Swiss border. water. It's a great mountain climbing area. The Matterhorn is on one side, and the Monte Rosa on the other side. Three or four of us with this rugby team being in wonderful shape decided we'd step out and break a record that wasn't on the Olympic books. For years and years, they had broken these records, both climbing Monte Rosa and descending Monte Rosa. We didn't like the climbing idea, so we decided on the descending one. We were taken up in a train. They timed us from there, and we lit out with track suits on and spikes. I believe the record was four hours and a half, something like that. We got down about an hour and ten minutes, and reported in this inn, and well, I can't describe what happened. The whole town gathered around and discussed this thing for the two or three days we were there. They didn't know what to think. We had left at this particular time, and we arrived down at the hotel, and about one-third of the time that the others had ever taken. I checked up a few years later, and I found out that they'd forgotten all about this record, and they were back on the four hours and something period. I don't know whether that's too good a record story or not, but I'd like to add to what Eddie Egan said. I think this Olympic business is very important. Having participated in and having been a spectator at one or two, I can say that it's one of the great events that occurs throughout the world. And whether or not you gain goodwill, we'll say, you at least gain a considerable respect from those teams that you beat. And that's all countries such as Russia understand. Thank you. Thank you, Gene. That is Eugene Vidal, an inventive genius, an athlete of the first water. Now I'm to introduce our principal speaker, also a bit of brass. Marty would call him Crip, but I was never that familiar with him. He's the commanding general of the first army and also takes care of the United States Army matters with the United Nations. He doubles in brass. A man that can do that needs a little introduction as a speaker. It is my pleasure, therefore, to introduce Lieutenant General Willis D. Crittenberger, class of 1913 West Point, General Crittenberger. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's a marvelous. Good marvelous. Hello, honey. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Cheers. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, although I'm pretty low on the totem pole of speakers here today, what with our well-known Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Terry Allen, and all of these other fellows, I would not miss this chance to chisel in on this Olympic drive. Now, right from the start, I want you to know that it's not often that I have a chance to sit at the head table with such notables as McEwen and Olyphant and Eddie Egan and Pudge Heffelfinger, Terry Allen and Gene Vidal and Milstead, Babe Wyand, Eddie Dooley, last but not least, Sergeant Marty Marr, who taught me how to swim, dance, and shoot, but more prominently was known in my time as a fellow who helped the cadets get the boodle in from the Hudson River to the cadet camp. You know, when McEwen invited me to this luncheon a couple of weeks ago, I at that time did not know that this morning was to be the regularly scheduled meeting of the military staff committee, that United Nations group of military representatives from Russia, China, England, France, and the United States. This month, it happens that I am chairman. Of course, you all know the duties of a chairman. Bennett Cerf says a chairman is roughly the equivalent of parsley on a platter of fish. Standing up there before you in uniform, I suppose, and I'm expected to tell a soldier joke. Well, here we go. You know, a few recruits just never seem to catch on to the Army routine. At least we find an occasional recruit a little dull on drills and training, but not on the eating end of the thing. Even a dull one of these fellas sharpens up when he gets into the mess hall. At Kilmer last Monday, they told me of one draftee who was unusually lazy and slow to catch on a drill. The company commander asked him, what's the matter with you and the Army? This soldier looked up and said, well, for one thing, there's too much fussing around between meals. not to get down to the serious part. As you know, the Army is interested in Olympic participation, as is also the Navy and the Air Force. Insofar as the Army is concerned, we have participated in boxing, track, and a modern pentathlon. Insofar as track is concerned, the National Olympic tryouts will be in Los Angeles, California on the 27th, 28th of June. Insofar as boxing is concerned, the Olympic boxing trials will be held in Kansas City on 16, 17, and 18 of June. I hope that there will be some members of the armed forces on the Olympic teams that represent the United States this year. There always have been in the past, and I believe it's reasonable to expect that there will be this time. Now, because I thought some of you might be interested in a first-hand report of the pentathlon finals, I asked one of our people to go to West Point last week and to observe it. You know, since its inception in Stockholm in 1912, the Swedes have produced the winner in every Olympiad except 1936, when the Germans won first in the modern pentathlon. This officer who saw the tryouts, the finals for the modern pentathlon at West Point on Saturday and Sunday reports that 11 persons competed in the final event. Eight were army officers, two enlisted men, one civilian, and one was an undergraduate of Dartmouth. This is the point I'd like to emphasize. Private first-class Thad MacArthur of Seattle, a graduate of the University of Washington, placed first. MacArthur was stationed at Raritan Arsenal in New Jersey and appears to have the best prospects for placing in the first five in Helsinki. I stand before you today and tell you that that is great, that private first-class MacArthur came out first. This staff officer reports to me that the United States team in the modern pentathlon this year is relatively inexperienced in comparison with European squads. as I said for the first time in the history of our participation in the modern pentathlon, an enlisted man is on the team. The other three members are West Point graduates. Now these fellows will have two weeks training and acclimatization. That's a $64 word, isn't it? Acclimatization in Finland before the competition which begins on July the 21st. That's at Helsinki. I brought down here today some pictures of these young fellows thinking that maybe you'd like to look at them. To me they appear to be stalwarts and individuals in whom we should have every confidence. now I could talk on all afternoon but I'm not going to. In the international field of treaties, agreements, conferences and assemblies the United States carries a big load financially. Now when it comes to an Olympiad in which 71 nations are to participate at Helsinki I understand that we're having trouble getting the money. In the richest nation in the world we are behind on our subscriptions. Behind on our subscriptions in an event in which the United States is sure to do well and in an event which is certain to add to our international prestige. Now we'll raise the money all right but let's get in on the takeoff instead of on the crash landing. Ollie just comes up and asks if I would care to talk about the events in the modern pentathlon. Well of course most of you know what they are. They are swimming, running, horseback, pistol and fencing. This is an event in which the army is very specifically interested. Mac, it's not often I get up here in the amen corner like this. When I do I want to take the greatest advantage of it. I want you to know what an honor it is for a representative of the armed forces to get up here and talk about raising funds for the Olympic. It's magnificent. Thank you. Thank you, General Secretary. Now I want to present to you a football from the Touchdown Club of New York. This is the greatest football for teenage boys. It suits them during the period until their voice changes. And it was designed by Arthur French, member of our Touchdown Club, and therefore the Touchdown Club sponsors it. If you'll tuck that under your arm and thank you for not forgetting the ultimate object of all this speaking was success in raising funds for the Olympic team, you made a wonderful talk, Crip. Thank you very much, Mac. You know, we raised this fellow to be an English teacher and also a teacher of Emily Post's What a Cadet Should Do at a Tea Party. Thank you. Well, I did escape that course. They put that in after World War I. I did enjoy the English course up there. As a matter of fact, now approaching my most powerful years, I won't deny anymore that at one time I taught the poetry of Robert Browning at the University of Oregon. At the same time, I coached the football team. And believe it or not, there was nothing inconsonate between the two jobs. And perhaps, therefore, I may end up this meeting with a note or two of poetry. You know, Lord Byron wrote a poem that I thought was wonderful. It's the greatest example of onomatopoeia and alliteration, but it's the spirit of attack. I'll give it to you. It's part of the destruction of Snackerib's Army. The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold, and his cohorts were gleaming in purple and gold. The sheen of their spears was like stars on the sea when the blue wave rolled nightly on deep Galilee. Like the leaves of the forest when summer is green, that host with their banners at sunset were seen. Like the leaves of the forest when autumn had blown, that host on the morrow lay withered and strone. For the angel of death, well, the girl called me to take her out of rowing. I was lying in a hammock and I didn't remember the rest of it. That's right. For those who are listening here and elsewhere, if you have enjoyed this program, that's more or less commercial, isn't it? The Touchdown Club of New York will take care of any contributions that you may send, and you can send them care of Colonel John J. McEwen, the president of the Touchdown Club, and you can send it in care of the Department of Safety of the New York City Rapid Transit System. Deputy Mayor Horowitz and I both work for the city. I don't know whether he's on annual vacation or not, but I am. May I say this, that we all hope higher than we expect. We are old enough, all of us, to keep our expectancies lower than our hopes. But again, in the great poem Rabbi Ben Ezra of Robert Browning, he said this, a man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's heaven for? And that is all, gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Eddie. Hey, Mac, come here. We're going to do this car, Mac. Come on. Well, I can't do it. You do it. You're going to do it. Go easy. Take care.erem. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go easy. Go step. Go easy.