Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In 13 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand analyzes Russian aims and American foreign policy are unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around Russia's purposes and the adequacy of our foreign policy to maintain peace and security. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. We welcome as our guest today Louis Gottschalk, Professor of Modern History at the University of Chicago. Waldemar Gurion, Professor of Political Science and Editor of the Review of Politics. James Avery Joyce, British barrister, author and educator. Gentlemen, I should like to begin today's discussion of Russian-American relations by asking this frequently raised question. What are the aims of the Soviet Union? Would you care to answer that, Gurion? The leaders of the Soviet Union believe that the world revolution and victory of communism will come with absolute necessity sometimes in the future. But the world revolution has not yet arrived, whereas the Soviet regime exists as basis for the coming communistic victory. Therefore, the leaders of the Soviet Union are today primarily interested in the power and expansion of the Soviet Union. World communism has become completely dependent upon Soviet foreign policy. Would you agree with Gurion, Joyce? It depends upon one's point of view. I do. And I quite unashamedly take the point of view here in this discussion of the world citizen. As such, I approach the problems of Russia, of Russia's foreign policy and its relation to the foreign policies of other nations from what I would regard as the point of view of the ordinary person. To my mind, Russia is made up of men and women very much like ourselves. I think the subjects, the interests which most of the people of the Soviet Union are concerned with are very much like our subjects and our interests. And therefore, it does seem to me that we are missing very great opportunities by thinking of these questions of foreign policy in terms of what particular governments are thinking, rather than in terms of the great mass of human beings of which compose the countries about which we are thinking. That is my approach to this question. I find myself more in agreement with Gurion than I do with Mr. Joyce. The revolution, I think, both inside Russia and reaching outside of Russia, has become subordinated to the Soviet quest for power. If I may be allowed a cliche, all power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. The Russian revolution has become, I think, a pretext for power rather than the purpose for which the Russian government wants power. The revolution has become identified so thoroughly with Soviet imperialism and I may add with Stalin that it is practically impossible for those who make Russian policy to separate them even if they would. But that is at least where I agree with Gottschalk. The problem that we have to deal with here is the naked problem of political power. And to my mind, the day of power politics is finished, or the world is finished, as a human unit. And unless we deal with power politics, whether that of the Kremlin or some other group, in terms other than the naked power of yesterday, with the atomic bomb at our disposal, there is no way of escape from mankind as, in fact, a human unit. Now, may I move back for just a moment to what you said earlier, Mr. Joyce. I think you indicated that you believe the Russian people play some part in determining Soviet power. Am I correct in making that statement? Absolutely correct, because to my mind, the people of a country determine its mores, determine its outlook, determine ultimately its government. And the government's concern is with its own people, and not with the people of other countries. Gurian, can you accept this view that the Russian people have some important part in determining Soviet foreign policy? I think, if the Russian people would determine the Soviet foreign policy, there would be no talk whatsoever today about a danger of World War III. The Russian people determines only insofar foreign policy as the official Soviet propaganda and ideology appears as a pacifistic one, in order to please the Russian masses. It's obvious that the Russian government has to take into account that if the people of Russia can't be driven, that it'll be one of their complications to conduct a civil war at the same time that they conduct a foreign war. I think they will not engage in a policy that will oblige them to smite a large part of their own people. But for the most part, I think they are able to manage their people, and any resistance that is likely to occur, they can easily suppress. And consequently, I think the Russian people are only a very minor and indirect factor in determining Russian policy. Now, this is obviously a matter of emphasis. I often wonder how governments, all governments, or most governments, manage to get away with the management of their people. But in foreign affairs, they do it. And they do it because of this threat, this threat of war. And I would say that the, the fear of war is mentored in the minds of the people of the Soviet Union, who, after all, have passed through the most devastating of experiences, quite unrealizable in this country. If from, say, New York to New Orleans, the whole of the United States, or a third of the United States have been under foreign domination, there have been millions of people butchered and imprisoned, then the view would be probably a different view from the view under the present circumstances. And the people of Russia, if they felt, in my imagination, as I would say a world citizen, and I hope an intelligent man, if they felt that Stalin was attempting to run a, what we call a preventative war, or a war of aggression against the United States, he'd be assassinated tomorrow. Well, I don't think the Russians plan a preventative war. I think, however, that if they wanted, if the Russian government wanted war, it could easily swing the Russian people into, into favoring war. Actually, I don't think the Russians want a war. It isn't part of their policy because they, they think, and I think they are likely to be correct in thinking, that the, uh, uh, they can achieve their purposes without war. But that is not a unique propensity of the Russian government, being able to swing their peoples into war when they, they make up their minds to have, uh, a war, is it? Is that unique for the Russian people? I think, I think, I think, uh, our history of totalitarianism has demonstrated that totalitarian governments, uh, can swing their peoples more easily than free governments can, and that, moreover, they don't hesitate to do so. I understood Gurion's view here was that, uh, if only the Russian people had control, and not their government, there would be no third world war. But if I understand him right, what he is saying is that a miracle has happened in the world. For the first time in human history, the only, uh, factors in the beginning of a war are, are, are a group of gentlemen sitting around a table in a place called the Kremlin, to my mind, that's highly fantastic. That isn't the first time it has happened. It happened, it has happened again and again in history, that a group of people have decided whether a country will go to war, and then have, uh, told their peoples that they are at war, whether the peoples liked it or not. I can remember Louis XIV and Napoleon and Hitler, for example. It seems to me fantastic to assume that the Russian masses determine Soviet foreign policy. There is no free public opinion. There is no discussion. There is no access to information in the Soviet Union. Only the facts become known which are convenient to the policies of the government. Therefore, I think it is a complete misunderstanding of the nature of the Soviet regime to assume that the people can determine foreign foreign policies of Stalin and his political bureau. I think we've been talking here a good deal about, uh, just who determines Soviet foreign policy. We might move on to see what that foreign policy has meant insofar as, uh, the world is concerned. It's very obvious that American foreign policy has been affected by Russian actions. Would re-, would you review those actions, uh, just for a moment, Gatshaw? Well, I think one of the saddest things that has occurred in the last five years has been that American foreign policy has been determined by Russia. Our policy has been to react to what the Russians have done. It's a defensible policy because it is a policy, I think, of, of seeking our own security. And as a consequence, we, uh, uh, are, uh, obliged to engage upon many things that I disapprove of, and some things that I think are positive. Would you be specific at that point? Well, the thing, you mean what I disapprove of and what I approve of? Well, I disapprove of, uh, our effort, for example, to, uh, contain Russia wherever Russia may decide to split out. I think that is a policy that is hardly implementable with the resources at the disposal of the Western world. On the other hand, I approve of such things as the Marshall Plan, the four-, the fourth, uh, point number four, efforts, in other words, to build up the economies of backward or, or, uh, deteriorated countries. And, uh, I, uh, am in favor of the modifications of the UN that have recently been proposed by Mr. Atchison. Uh, would you care to add anything there, Mr. Joyce? Um, yes. I, uh, uh, very warmly approve, uh, Gottschalk's, uh, uh, proposition there, that foreign policy, uh, he's speaking as an American, and I can, in a sense, speak as a Britisher, for it applies more or less to all of us, uh, tends to be a kind of car's tail, that the car moves in one direction, especially if it's a red car, and the tail wags in the other direction. To my mind, that is the, uh, reductio ad absurdum, as we lawyers say, of foreign policy. It's, it's reaction rather than action. And hence, I support him in that second part of his, uh, uh, proposition, just now, that we now have to turn from this, uh, arid, uh, ground of, uh, power politics, practicing what the, uh, Russians are practicing. In other words, taking our cue from them, turn from that kind of negative foreign policy to the constructive policy of peacemaking, which will reach through to the peoples of the Soviet Union, who unfortunately have had nothing of that kind up to this moment to put their faith upon. The United States believed during World War II that a lasting world peace could be established with the help of the Soviet Union. But this help, but this hope did not come through. Why? The Soviet Union did not accept a policy of cooperation. And that caused a radical change in the approach of the United States towards the Soviet Union. We are faced today by the necessity of rearmament. We are pursuing a policy to stop Soviet aggression and the aggression of Soviet satellites. Uh, I think, uh, Mr. Joyce, uh, misunderstood quite what I wanted to say. Uh, I find myself again more in agreement with Mr. Gurian than I do with Mr. Joyce. What I meant to say was that while I approve of, of such things as the Marshall Plan and point number four, I am not opposed to rearmament. Uh, I am opposed to our using our arms anywhere where the Russians see fit to make us use our arms because it seems to me that gives them the strategic advantage and it, uh, it, uh, it, uh, stretches our resources to a point where it will not be feasible for us to use them effectively. I'd like to examine one specific aspect of foreign policy and that is, uh, the UN insofar as Russia and America has acted in that organization. Would you say that we have followed the only possible, uh, path there in our action, Gachoff? Well, I think with regard to the Korean, uh, situation, we were caught in a, in a, in a situation altogether to the advantage of Russia where we didn't have any choice. We had to act the way we did or see the collapse of our entire foreign policy and, uh, eventually the loss of our own, uh, national security. Uh, that again illustrates the point I have in mind that the Russians can make situations to which we can do nothing but react. It's an unfortunate situation which I think as soon as possible we ought to withdraw from. On the other hand, I don't see any reason why we have to resist the Russians, uh, or communism with or without Russians in, uh, every place that it may show its hand, whether at an Indochina or in, or in Tibet or other remote areas where we can't conceivably have the same strategic advantages or even the same moral advantages that the Russians have. Uh, I, I fully agree. I, I think Gachoff is giving his own case away. If you pursue the line of, uh, Goryan, uh, in his stress upon rearmament, which is supported by my friend Gachoff, I notice, then you are driven to Korea and another Korea and another Korea. That is the result. That's the end result of power politics practiced through armaments. Or if I may perhaps quote quite a famous and distinguished American speaking recently who says that if armaments is in fact the main policy, we shall finish up like a corpse in armor in the next war. I'm afraid that Joyce escapes from the heart of the present in a future which may never materialize. Who has driven the United States to take action in Korea? The attack of the satellite of the Soviet Union. I think that we cannot avoid today policies of mobilization and of rearmament. If we would, for instance, start today a policy of disarmament, a policy of relying upon the good will of the Soviet Union, such a policy would jeopardize the future. Such a policy would have only one result, one result, continuous increase, aggressions of the Soviet Union. Again, I find myself somewhere between Joyce and Goryan. I'm in favor of the United States being prepared to defend itself. In order to defend itself, I think it has to defend Western Europe. In order to defend itself, it must not expand to a point where its resources are stretched to the breaking point. Consequently, it seems to me that what we must do is go on the defensive in Asia. As rapidly as strategic, humanitarian, and diplomatic conditions will permit, we ought to withdraw from Asia and put most of our resources in the defense of the Atlantic Ocean and the islands of the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific Ocean, and the islands of the Pacific Ocean. So that's just my case. If you take the line of rearmament and power politics, as my friend seems to take here, you are driven to carry out your wars in other people's territories. First it's Korea, and now my friend Gottschalk tells me, as a European, that he's going to carry out his defense in Europe. We are very obligated to that thoughtfulness, but it seems to me the peoples of Europe are just fed up to the back teeth with war. The peoples of Europe and the peoples of Asia have had enough of this sort of thing in the past, and it's about time, a time for greatness, when we can turn to other policies. I'm not proposing long-term changes. I'm proposing short-term and immediate changes in which we can operate the techniques of modern science, of international administration, of public welfare, on a world plane such as the world's imagination has never yet dreamed of. But instead of doing that, instead of being big and great and democratic, in our foreign policies, we're acting just like totalitariums playing the game of power politics, using other countries as pawns in that wretched game. Now we're talking, I think, in beautiful generalities. I'm wondering, Mr. Joyce, exactly what would you do, for example, in Korea? I do not want to be sidetracked on Korea, partly because we've... Why? Well, what would you do in Western Europe then? In Western Europe, it seems to me the main basic reality is that the peoples of Western Europe are fearstruck, afraid of the conflict of Russia and of the United States. They're not fearing for their own safety as such. They are fearing as to what will happen between those two great Leviathans, one on the left and one on the right. Would you discontinue the Marshall Plan? The Marshall Plan is not an answer to the point that we've been discussing with great respect to you, Mr. Moderator. What I'm discussing now is this armaments proposal which has been put onto this table of discussion. The Marshall Plan is a contribution towards techniques of international betterment, raising of standards of life, a very small contribution, something which must be done on a far vaster scale. And that is the answer in broad terms to communism. It is the translation of democracy into world terms, and it's the course we must pursue. The other course is arid and futile. Joyce, may I ask you a very blunt question. Do you really believe that the fears of the peoples in Europe would cease if the United States would suddenly declare we will stop our present policies of rearmament? Do you really believe that one can stop the Soviet armies with the help of general plans concerning a future far away? I do not agree with that latter question, but the former question can be answered in these terms. We have allies that we are in fact not using, such as India. A very wise Indian leadership is proposing, as a bridge between the United States and Russia, that there shall in fact be a world conference, perhaps next year or the year after, to do nothing less than establish world government. In other words, that representatives of the people, at least from the free nations, can come irrespective of their foreign policies and what goes on behind the diplomatic closed doors of the foreign offices, that the peoples of the nations of the free world, if they really are free and want to act as free people, should begin to elect forthwith the parliament of man. And in that connection, India, with its neutrality, with its philosophy of peace and international understanding and humanity, is one of the many factors that we are leaving out of account. If we want, as I say, to act in a great way, we have the chance of acting in a great way in the next year or two years, with the help of India and many of the the other allies that we are neglecting at the present stage. Joyce, is not your belief in India somewhat outdated? Has Red China not meanwhile invaded Tibet? And has India not meanwhile declared that it would oppose, it would regard as a cause of opposition to the Soviet Union such an invasion? And if you propose to call together today a world parliament, do you really believe that Stalin and the Politburo will permit elections to such a world parliament in the Soviet Union? Do you really believe that the Soviet Union would be willing to accept a world government which is not controlled by communistic parties? Do you really believe that the Soviet Union would accept to join a world government in which capitalist powers would have the majority? The two comments that I make straight away are firstly, I cannot base my politics upon, as I might say with great respect to my learned friend here, the five minutes view. What happened this morning or last night is not a basis for my judgment. And hence, I would, as I am doing, take a view which will be prevalent, which will be valid yesterday, today and tomorrow. In answer to his point about the Soviet Union and world government, my fear is not that the Soviet Union will not come in. The Soviet Union will certainly be in a world government if that world government is offering her security and offering her means of life on the same conditions as that of other people. My fear is that we, the democratic peoples, who are presumed to use our intelligence and apply scientific techniques and modern ideas to 20th century conditions, that we are in fact will be behind and backward. These proposals come from India, they come from Denmark, they come from Switzerland, they come from some of the smaller nations. Is the United States, is Great Britain to be behind in this obvious movement towards the parliament of men, the federation of the world? It's, it's our responsibility with which I'm concerned, not with what the Russians are going to do or not going to do the day after tomorrow. It seems to me that what Mr. Joyce is saying is what Alexander Walcott once said, that there's nothing the matter with the world that a good miracle can't cure. The fact is that in the last five years, we have had reason to believe that Russia will not come into any kind of an organization that is intended to improve the world. She didn't come into the health organization, she didn't come into the Marshall Plan, she hasn't come into a great number of the organizations that were intended by the United Nations to be a benefit not merely to the people of the capitalistic world, but to the world at large, including Russia and the Russian satellites. I see no reason to believe that what has not happened is, is going to happen again, or what has not happened is likely to happen in the future. That seems to me a logical jump. Ah, it is perhaps in the minds, if I may say so again with respect to a historian, but to a lawyer's mind, it is a basic fallacy. You are assuming because it hasn't happened in the past, it won't happen in the future. My dear friend, for the first time in the history of the human race, a new factor has arisen, and that factor is this. For the first time in the history of mankind, we face one common enemy, and that common enemy is the next war. If that war is to come, we are facing, and in fact will witness the annihilation of the greater part of mankind. And because of that new factor, communism, this conflict between capitalism and communism, takes second place to the common enemy and the need to meet the common enemy. I think you misunderstand the Russians. I don't think they think of war as an enemy. I think they think of a war as an, as an implement, as an implement whereby the capitalist world will collapse and the revolution will come. Isn't that happening? Isn't that happening? Are we going to give it to them every time? I think the chances are only too excellent that it may happen, but I see no, I see no escape for that, except in a long-term utopia. And it seems to me the thing we've got to do is fight for the short-term. If we don't get the short-term, we'll never get the long-term. I think that's obvious. That's a negation of all our Christian teaching. It's a negation of the political basis of our life. It's a negation of everything we in the democratic countries believe. We must base our policies, to my mind, upon the hope in human nature, the faith in human nature, which says we can do this job and we can do it in time. It is excellent to have hopes, but the hopes must be related to facts. And it is a fact that the Soviet Union regards all schemes of world government, also the scheme proposed by Joyce as a means to advance the interests and the domination of world capitalism. The Soviet Union rejects absolutely world government. And therefore, to believe that the Soviet Union would suddenly accept world government means to misunderstand the present situation. I am afraid that the policies of Mr. Joyce will only result in accelerating the coming of World War III. To demand today world government means to overlook the facts and the realities of the present. You will get it. To demand world government today means to start an education towards world cynicism. Because those people who will believe in these demands will soon despair and will then be willing to accept all kinds of policies, including a preventive war against the Soviet Union as the enemy of world government. In my mind, the only way to meet communism is by extending world citizenship and to meet the next war by world government. Because you'll get world government either way. I want it through intelligence and through cooperation and through negotiation and not through war. But world government is inevitable and the question is just how we're going to get it. My feeling is that our problem is to use our resources in such a way as to affect peace. We can use our resources effectively only, I think, if we have a limited military aim and a broad economic aim. Otherwise, our resources will be stretched to the breaking point. Thank you. May I note in closing, gentlemen, that you have presented both interesting and conflicting viewpoints regarding Russia's real purposes and the best manner in which we can meet the challenge she presents in order to maintain peace and security. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Russian aims and American foreign policy. Why not send for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and 50 cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Louis Gottschalk, Waldemar Gurion and James Avery Joyce. And now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand completes its series of three broadcasts on American foreign policy with a discussion of the question, how can Western Europe be defended against communism? Our guests will be George B. Carson, professor of modern history at the University of Chicago, Captain Michael Fielding, author and commentator on international problems, and Joseph F. McDaniel, Jr., dean of the School of Commerce at Northwestern University and former assistant deputy of ECA. We invite you to listen next week for How Can Western Europe Be Defended Against Communism? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. How Can Western Europe Be Defended Against Communism? Your announcer, Dick Coughlin. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .