May I, on behalf of the Central Trades and Labor Council, Mr. Ewing, introduce the representatives that are here today to greet you. On my left, we have John Brennan of the Building and Construction Trades Council. On my right, our attorney, Judge McGuire. Then on my, at the end of the first table to the right is John Eck of the Teamsters, Harry Martin of the Teamsters, Al Waple of the Teamsters Organization, Sal Bonfiglio, Teamsters, Pat Ross, Tom Riley, and Al Gorman. And Brother Tyrell of the Teamsters 553. On my right also is Joe Tonella, who is Vice President of the Teamsters Joint Council. Lester Connell of the Teamsters 816. Brother Louis Lofrano, who is Secretary or Treasurer of the Teamsters Joint Council. John DeLore, who is also of the Sanitation Group of the Joint Council of Teamsters. And our Vice President, Mo Rosen, of the Central Trades and Labor Council. Mr. Ewing, that's our group here. Now we have the Secretary of the CIO, Brother Morris Yuschevitz, who will now take over on behalf of the CIO. Well, Mr. Ewing, I would like to do the same thing for the CIO. Immediately on my right is Bill Steinberg, the President of the American Radio Association. Joe Kern, the President of the National Maritime Union. John Hunt, the Port Agent for the National Maritime Union. Earl King of the Marine Engineers Beneficial Association of the CIO. And we have Mr. Podica of the Newspaper Guild. And Del Monte and Schumacher of the Shoe Workers. And then at this table, we have Matt Guinan, the President of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union. Shirley Gary, also from the Transport Workers Union. Sam Kovanecki, the President of the Macy Local. And at the other end of the room, we have the President of the Lithographers Local, Edward Swaduck and Frank Gilligan from the same organization. We also have with us, and I think this is my job, to introduce Herman Cooper, attorney for a number of CIO unions. We may have to divide him with the AFL, since he represents some of the AFL unions as well. And what we're to do about Ted Keel, I don't know. I guess we'll have to divide him, too. Marty Lacy says he'll take care of him. And we're also honored in having with us the Secretary to Mayor and Pelletary, Frank Sampson, who's sitting up here at the head of the table. And Judge McGuire has already been introduced. And John O'Donnell at the left end of the table there, the attorney for the Transport Workers Union, and also for the Macy Local. Kovanecki made sure I got that in. And now, ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce the president of the Central Trades and Labor Council, AFL Martin T. Lacy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and guest of honor. Mr. Administrator. I'm saying a few words for Teddy Keel. They've deprived me of quite an honor here today, gentlemen. I was under the impression that I was to make a speech in addressing the guest of honor. However, we leave it to Mike Quill, the president of the central body of the CIO, for to make the speech. And I hope he don't make a mistake. Where the Mike Quill? I'll make the speech. You'll make the speech. There is a... My friends, there is a terrific amount of book passing here today. We seem to be very badly off the gold standard. I think that this presentation that Martin Lacy is about to make to our guest of honor is long overdue. Every working man and woman in the United States not only have heard of Oscar Ewing and the good work that he's been doing, but they have benefited many hundreds of thousands of them by his work. It is appropriate that we should meet in the city of New York at this time, representing organized labor from One Millen Strong and the offices and factories and shops and other industries of this city to pay our respects to Oscar Ewing. Any of you that have read the morning papers will readily understand that despite all opposition, Oscar Ewing have come through again for the working men and women of this country, especially the aged and inferred people. There is none of us to all to forget the attacks that the powers that be, those who control, the press of this country made upon President Roosevelt and later upon President Truman and always the attacks that they led against Oscar Ewing because of his New Deal and Fair Deal approach for the American people. The press today is of great satisfaction to us. We note that Oscar Ewing again, through his work day in and day out, not only in Washington, but his hundreds of trips throughout the United States, have succeeded in pushing the frontiers of Social Security another step further in the Federal Congress. Of course, there are more roadblocks, more roadblocks that have been put in the way and created by the American Medical Association, and that victory that was scored in Congress yesterday have to be scored again in the Senate in Washington. We who come from working people, Oscar Ewing, haven't forgot the job that you are doing. the working people throughout the country, wherever we go, wherever there is a discussion of labor's rights and labor's gains, wherever there is a discussion from the floor on political action, the name of Oscar Ewing is mentioned. I happened to have a meeting in Tulsa, Oklahoma, a couple of months ago among some 2,000 airline workers, and I was pleasantly surprised that the discussion from the floor on political action was led by some people who asked us to explain in more detail the work that Oscar Ewing is doing for all the people of this country in Washington, whether it is transport workers or teamsters or office workers or workers from any other industry who are organized, we find that the name of Oscar Ewing comes up. It isn't only in this state that we are proud to have you, Oscar, but the workers of any other state throughout the United States would be glad to have you and to respect you for the work you are doing. And this luncheon here of men and women representatives of organized labor and Judge McGuire and Ted Keel and the assistant mayor Frank Sampson who settled the transport workers strike in the Long Island Railroad yesterday, all these people understand the work that you have been doing and they come here not just to have lunch, but they come here to pay their respects on behalf of the men and women that we represent. and with these few words and knowing that the time is short because of an appointment that you have on television this afternoon, I will turn the microphone over to Martin Lacey to make the presentation of the scroll to Mr. Ewing. Oscar, on behalf of CIO, we are proud to join with the American Federation of Labor in this city in doing you honor. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to read the scroll and you'll pay attention for a few moments. It goes as follows. To Oscar Ewing for his effective and unrelenting battle to protect the working men and women of this country against the triple threat of insecurities of old age, unemployment, and sickness, for his aggressive and loyal support of the New Deal and the Fed Deal as the strong right arm of Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, for his courage, his friendship, and his understanding. We, the representatives of over one million members of unions affiliated with the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization and the City of New York extend our greetings and respects this day, June the 18th, 1952. Signed by the President of the Central Trades and Labor Council, myself, Martin T. Lacey, James C. Quinn, the President of the New York CIO Council, Michael J. Quill, and Morris Ushelitz. I present this to you and all the respects you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Gentlemen, the Administrator, Oscar E. Ewing. Mr. Lacey, Mr. Quinn, and all of my good friends here in the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization. Candidly, I'm very touched by this scroll. During a lifetime, a man accumulates many parchments. He receives them when he graduates from school for work accomplished. If he's in public life, he receives a variety of awards from associates and friends. I suppose I have received my share. But it's the nature of an award that gives it its true value. And its value is further enhanced by the source from which it comes, by who the givers are. And this is what touches me particularly, that I should receive this award at a joint meeting of labor leaders from both the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization. The joint political activities of your two great labor organizations are a symbol of the overall and basic unity that underlies the struggle to achieve a continually better world to live in. I'm particularly moved by the phrase in the scroll for effective and unrelenting battle to wipe out the triple threat of insecurity, meaning old age, unemployment, and sickness. An unrelenting battle. You have fought it more vigorously than I. I count myself among those who've stood alongside you in the battle. And I'm happy to say that I stood there in your triumphs and in times when victory was not in sight. Everyone familiar with the labor movement knows this, that no one counts ten over you. The struggle for the abolition of child labor, for better wages, for shorter working hours, for safety in mine and factory, for tolerable working conditions, all this has not been exactly a pillow fight in a girls finishing school. these battles to some extent are won. Now the unrelenting struggle is on the broader front of insecurity. On occasions such as this, we may take a pardonable pride in looking back into the past for a few happy glimpses before girding ourselves for the future. You are entitled to the pleasures of that backward look, for what you see, what we all see, to a great extent, as the result of your efforts in concert with enlightened and courageous political leadership. We look back happily at the great gains achieved for the common people in our country in the past 20 years, gains unparalleled in any other period of mankind. I specified 20 years because these are the years that labor and liberal stood shoulder to shoulder and spirit to spirit and won a battle for a happier and easier life for all people. The battle was won on many fronts. It was won against starvation and joblessness, against apple selling and holes in our shoes, against closed banks and muted factories. It was won against the most terrible and haunting enemy of the human race, fear. No one needs to draw a picture to make us remember these horror-filled, nightmarish days before 1932. I would, however, like to draw a pattern of the state of affairs in 1952 as it affects ourselves and our neighbors and our fellow men. Today, more than 62 million persons are working in the United States. The average urban wage is above $3,000 a year for a 40-hour week. No one is starving. The actual purchasing power of labor's wages today is three times what it was in 1932. In other words, for every chicken in the pot in 1932, labor can now have three chickens. Labor has established many rights, compensation and injuries, payment paid vacations, pleasant working conditions, and a multitude of health and welfare programs. And the country is prospering. Our production has multiplied many-fold since those dark days of the Depression. Last year, our savings, the savings of the people, totaled more than $17 billion. Corporate profits after taxes, after taxes, were over $18 billion. In 1932, they were more than $3 billion in the red. And anyone that tells you that our present prosperity cannot continue is either ignorant or a demagogue. This prosperity will continue, and I will tell you why it will continue. It will continue and expand if we continue to follow the policies and programs we have followed and put into effect in the last 20 years, policies staunchly supported by men like yourselves. For in the past 20 years, we have developed a philosophy and a pattern of social progress that goes further and beyond the problems of achieving of achieving day-to-day prosperity. We felt we had to build an economy and an American way of life on foundations that were solid, and we have done so. We have done so by establishing a floor of security under our daily living. The minimum wage, the guarantee of bank deposits up to $10,000 a year, up to $10,000, support prices for farmers, social security insurance for the aged, for the widows and the orphans. These have all put a floor under our economic fears. The time will not come again when a man will be afraid to buy bread and clothing lest he go broke the next day. These economic guarantees have made him unafraid to face the future. He feels more secure, so he continues to buy, not only the necessities of life, but those things that lead to a better, more comfortable, easier life. That is why so many television sets are being sold and so many refrigerators and so many electric washing machines and so many automobiles. The standard of living keeps improving and improving. Production continues to go up and up. Yet, although the average American now is living better than any other person has ever lived in the whole history of civilization, we do not think we have reached the peak. We still have a long way to go. Our standard of living can continue to rise and continue to expand in freedom and in dignity. but to achieve still higher goals, we must build a stronger floor of security under our economy. We must have a higher minimum wage. We must expand our social security program. We must provide insurance protection for those who are totally disabled in tragic accidents off the job. We must set up some form of insurance to take care of our people in illness so that their economic security is not wiped out by the soaring costs of keeping healthy. Insurance is a part of the American way of life. It is not socialism as our enemies would have you believe. It is Americanism that is democracy in action. My friends, I am very happy and honored to receive this scroll from the men who have fought not only for higher wages and better working conditions for the people of this country but also for security. All of you seated around this festive table, labor leaders with courage and vision and understanding. The battle still is joined. We are opposed at every move. Some weeks ago I had introduced in Congress a bill to provide hospitalization insurance for those on social security rolls who are over 65 and for widows and orphans. A program that would not cost a single extra penny in taxes or premiums or wage deduction. So far, however, Congress has taken no action on this bill. Not even held any committee hearings. When we put forward a simple little measure to increase social security checks because we have the money in the trust fund to do it and because, Lord knows, our aged can barely subsist on their present benefits, the bill was killed in the House of Representatives with a phony cry of socialism. But the public protest was so thunderous that the House was compelled to reverse itself and have passed the bill yesterday. The pending hospitalization bill for the aged for widows and orphans will be passed eventually. I am convinced that eventually national health insurance will become the law of the land. To me, one of the most exciting political developments of our time is the increasing political action by labor. The great gains of the past 20 years for all the people of America could not have been accomplished without the active political support of labor. Other groups have helped too. Farmers, racial groups, and so forth. And it has been this great combined movement that has accomplished so much for so many in so short a time. The joint political activities of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organization here in New York City have been most encouraging. But much remains to be done. Some kind of technique must be developed to give labor a more effective voice in the selection of candidates and the determination of party policies. Today, you rely entirely on the veto power. But this is not always effective. There's a limit to its use. We have seen labor veto one candidate and then be compelled to accept a second that it did not want simply because it just isn't practical to use the veto power more than once. But, we are moving forward. And we, labor and liberal, must continue to stand shoulder to shoulder, spirit to spirit, and heart to heart and continue to fight for social gains as they were envisaged by our founding fathers when they adopted our Constitution in order to promote the general welfare of the people, of all the people of the United States. Thank you very much and I deeply appreciate more than I can tell you receiving this scroll from your hands. Thank you. applause I just want to say before Martin will close this session on behalf of CIO I want to thank you all for being here. I want to say to Oscar Jung that he has made history all through the United States and all down the line. In the 15 year history of CIO and AFL in this city to my memory this is the first time that both bodies have joined in presenting such a scroll and paying such an honor to one such outstanding citizen. Oscar, we are proud of the honor that we are bestowing upon you today because of the good work you have done. applause The meeting stands closed. . Thank you.