Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is Carlton Smith of the National Broadcasting Company speaking to you from the floor of the House of Representatives in the United States Capitol Building in Washington. The eyes of the world are on Washington today. The President of the United States will be here in a few minutes to speak directly to a joint session of both houses of Congress on the subject of our national defense. The invasion of Holland and Belgium six days ago brought Europe's war more forcibly to the attention of America. Only a few hours after the news was flashed to the White House, President Roosevelt called in the heads of the Army and Navy for consultation. Then followed in almost daily succession, conferences with war and Navy Department officials, Treasury Secretary Morgenthau and congressional leaders. The conferences dealt with the need for increasing our armed forces. More money for the Army. More money for the Navy. As we speak to you now, the members of the Senate have just come from the Senate chamber and taken the two rows of seats in the front of the House which were reserved for them. As yet, the members of the Cabinet have not come in, but they'll be along in a few minutes, and then the President. And now, Earl Godwin has just come from the White House a little bit ago, and he's been around in the corridors of the Capitol here. Let's see what he has to report. This is Earl Godwin speaking and telling you that the President will address Congress and ask for a large sum of money for specific extra military and naval purposes which he will explain, and no doubt will explain dramatically and with great interest, in his usual vein. Then, the Joint Session of Congress will divide and go back to work. The message itself will be referred to the Naval and Military Appropriations Committees of the House, and it is the plan of the leaders now to bring both bills out tomorrow, using today to debate the relief bill which is interrupted for this moment. Then, there will be more drama. Instead of agonizing through a special rule with long, special debate on this subject, Sam Rayburn of Texas, the dynamic House leader for the majority, intends to rise in his place and ask for unanimous consent to consider the bill immediately and without any further parley. Any one man in Congress in the House can block that consideration. But is there such a man? Mr. Rayburn today thinks that there is no such a man, and he believes the bill will go through unanimously. The drama open today, to be open today in a few moments, will be continued in the hair-trigger tactics in this House from which I am now broadcasting. I ask for so many millions for defense, will say Mr. Roosevelt. Here it is, says Congress, if the plan works. This personal appearance of the President is in answer to an advice and almost a plea on the part of Secretary of State Hull, who values the international effect of the message to come, and by Senator Barkley of Kentucky, by Speaker Bankhead, and by Congressman Rayburn, whom I just mentioned a few moments ago, and Barkley, Bankhead, and Raymond want the President here for its domestic effect. Today's message, in a sense, is part of the program of the administration of good neighborliness, neutrality, and preparedness, that is, working every angle for peace. If good neighborliness is not sufficient, then be so strong that war will not come to American shores. That is the, that is in simple language, is the administration's program. And now, back to Carlton Smith. The Speaker of the House has just announced the appointment of a committee of three members, composed of Representatives Rayburn, Doughton, and Martin, to act for the House in escorting the President into the chamber. And the Vice President, who is seated to the right of the Speaker, at the Speaker's rostrum, has just announced the appointment of the committee of three senators, Senator Barkley of Kentucky, Senator McNary of Oregon, and Senator Pittman of Nevada. And those six members of the two houses have retired from the House chamber, and in just a moment, will escort the President into the House chamber. The Speaker, members of the President's Cabinet. And there's the announcement by Ralph Roberts, the assistant doorkeeper, of the arrival of the members of the President's Cabinet. And they come from the rear of the chamber now, down the center aisle, and will take their places in the chairs, especially placed for them in the well of the House of Representatives. The President worked on the message he has to read today until two o'clock yesterday morning. And up until late last night, it was understood that he would send the message to Congress to be read by the reading clerks. But last night, Mr. Early made public the announcement that Mr. Roosevelt would come to the Capitol himself to read the message. It is the first time the President has been to the Capitol since back in January when he opened the Congressional session. That's January 3rd. It is said that the President was urged to deliver his message in person by Congressional leaders. Naturally, the fact that the Chief Executive will read the message has lent importance to this occasion. Today, all of the facilities of American radio have been placed at the President's disposal so that his voice may reach not only every nook and cranny of our own country, but the world as well. The National Broadcasting Company is carrying the President's voice on all its stations in the United States and on its shortwave stations, WRCA and WNBI. The message will be translated and rebroadcast in French, German, Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese. And now we've just had the signal that the President is leaving the office of the Speaker and making his way toward the House chamber. He's coming now, preceded to the rostrum by the members of the Secret Service, and then, of course, following them will be the committer. We can't quite see them yet. We do see the Secret Service. And now Kenneth Romney, Sergeant-at-Arms of the House, followed by the members of the Joint Committee whose names we gave you a few moments ago. Senator Barclay, Senator McNary, and Senator Pittman. The announcement there in the background by Ralph Roberts of the arrival of the President. And the Senators, followed by the three members of the House. And now the President just coming through the door to the right of the Speaker's rostrum. With him is Secretary and Military Aide, General Edwin M. Watson. The President speaks, as you know, from the Clerk's Desk, immediately in front of the desk of the Speaker. He's coming now with General Watson and his Naval aide, Captain Callahan. and he's almost reached the reading clerk's desk, from which point he's going to speak to you. First he turns toward the Vice President and the Speaker and with a smile greets them. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the cheers of the Joint Session of Congress for the President of the United States. The Speaker will introduce the President. the bullied of the President- the Leader of the United States. And I'll see you at the Thunder and they're all responsible for疲 and dobre備. I'm going to Bro- theproblemうわ sia aboutfilm and member Eagle and military and agriculture and