From City Hall, your city station brings you the official ceremonies greeting the Alert America Civil Defense Convoy. Mayor Impeliteri is to greet the convoy's GI drivers, most of them veterans of World War II and the Korean War, who were loaned to the Federal Civil Defense by the United States Army Transportation Corps in Washington, D.C., for this nationwide Alert America tour. These ceremonies this afternoon open a week's exhibit at the 7th Regiment Armory. And you are hearing now the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, Coordinator of Recruiting and Public Information for the New York City Civil Defense. To alert the American people to the necessity of enrolling in civil defense, the convoy is paid for by the Valley Forge Foundation, by patriotic citizens, and it will shortly be displayed, by shortly I mean tonight and for the next week, at the 7th Regiment Armory, together with the federal, state, and city defense exhibits. I'm quite sure that the millions of people who will be privileged to visit the Armory during that period will find that their time has not been wasted, and that they will again be alerted to the fact that it is a job of each and every one of us to volunteer for civil defense. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Whalen, Commissioner Wallander, Borough President Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a privilege for me as Chief Executive of our city to welcome to City Hall Plaza this great convoy of traveling exhibits on civil defense sponsored by the Valley Ford Foundation in cooperation with federal, state, and local civil defense organizations. While in our own city, great strides have been made in acquainting our people with the importance of an adequate civil defense structure, much remains to be done in attracting the thousands of additional volunteers that are needed for this urgent community enterprise. These traveling educational exhibits, which beginning tomorrow morning will be on public display at the 7th Regiment Armory, Park Avenue and 66th Street, depict the peacetime uses of atomic energy, the horrible story of atomic warfare, and the ways in which our nation, state, and cities are prepared to meet any threat of attack. Beginning today, our city will observe a Civil Defense Alert America Week, with special programs planned in the various boroughs by our civil defense officials to stimulate volunteer recruitment. Our nation's great industrial and commercial firms ought to be commended for cooperating with the responsible government agencies in making possible this mighty civil defense convoy to dramatize the need for individual and group participation in civil defense activities. I'm happy to read the proclamation setting aside this week for this very important program. Proclamation. Whereas the United States and other freedom-loving nations of the world stand united against the common enemy who would destroy what we hold most dear, and whereas a city under enemy attack is only as strong as its civil defense, and whereas the city of New York is striving to fulfill its quota of one million enrolled and trained civil defense volunteers as our contribution to the internal security of the United States, and whereas on May 12th the Alert America convoy comes to New York City together with dramatic state, city, and federal exhibits which seek to make the public aware of the meaning of civil defense and enemy warfare, and whereas it is the purpose of this vast project to attract tens of thousands of New Yorkers to see it and through better understanding be prompted to enlist as civil defense volunteers. Now, therefore, I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby proclaim the week of May 12th to May 19th, 1952 as Alert America Week in the City of New York and urge that the people of our great city set aside sufficient time from their daily chores to visit the Alert America exhibit, and I further urge that, having seen their civil defense in action, these men and women accept their responsibilities as patriotic New Yorkers and volunteer for service in their civil defense in witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and cause the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 28th day of April 1952, signed, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Each borough of the city will have its day. Today is Manhattan's day, and the convoy will be led by Borough President Robert Wagner and the chairman of the Civil Defense Manhattan Organization. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you Borough President Robert Wagner. Mr. Whelton, Mayor Impelletary, Commissioner Wallander, ladies and gentlemen, I think our distinguished mayor has set forth the activity here this week and today here in Manhattan, and I sincerely hope that this convoy traveling through our streets in the exhibit at the armory will give to the people a greater understanding of what we're doing here in the city under the leadership of the mayor and Commissioner Wallander and what is going on throughout the country to make our country safe in case of an enemy attack. We all have heard it on many occasions, and it's still true, that in modern warfare, atomic warfare, the warfare that would come, we certainly hope it never does come to our shores, but if it does come, every citizen is involved in that war, not just those who are in the armed forces. Looking over what happened in Europe, in the Far East, in World War II, we see the destruction that civilians endured and cities endured, and certainly the next war, if it comes, will be even worse. We sincerely hope that this convoy and this week, proclaimed by the mayor, will give further evidence to our people of our preparedness, and will get them to join up with the hundreds of thousands who already are active in civilian defense to make our city safe from any possible attack. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. For two years, a man has labored as a volunteer in the organization of the Office of Civil Defense and has engaged in the field operation ten major departments in case of an attack. In addition to that, he has spent himself freely in traveling around the entire five boroughs of the city of New York as well as demonstrated the power of the alert which was given here a few months ago and the manner in which the people of our city approved of it and cooperated so thoroughly and enthusiastically. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you the Director of Civil Defense, the Honorable Author, Wallander. Thank you, Grover. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Grover Whelan, Mayor President Wagner, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed grateful to the Valley Forge Foundation for making it possible for a late America convoy to come here today. They're going to be with us for a week and I know that it will add a lot of stimulus to our efforts to recruit volunteers. You know, we are engaged in a very serious business of defending the home front. As a matter of fact, more and more the defenders on the home front are taking their place alongside the armed forces. That is, we're walking shoulder to shoulder. Dire things can happen to us in the city the size of New York City if we were to be attacked. We should be prepared. It's in your interest, in the interest of your loved ones and your neighbors. I urge you all to follow through with us and shoulder your responsibility and take your position alongside your neighbor in this great army of civil defense. Thank you. I just want to remind you again that tonight is a preview by invitation at the 7th Regiment Armory. But, from 10 o'clock tomorrow morning to 10 o'clock tomorrow night and every day thereafter until Monday the 19th, the armory will be open free of charge for all the visitors that come there. We expect to have about 80,000 high school children go through the exhibits between 10 o'clock in the morning and 3 o'clock in the afternoon. And in that way we hope that they shall be messengers of information to their parents and their parents will come in the afternoon and evening to visit one of the greatest exhibits that has ever been put together in the United States. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You have been listening to the ceremonies attending the arrival in New York of the Alert America convoy at New York City Hall opening a week of intensive civil defense recruitment. Mayor Impeletary read the city's official proclamation and greeted the convoy's GI drivers on this nationwide tour. Pardon me. Grover A. Whalen, coordinator of recruiting and public information for the New York City civil defense presided and presented Mayor Impeletary. starting this week's Alert America exhibit at the 7th Regiment Armory, 66th Street and Park Avenue. Open to the public tomorrow starting at 10 a.m. This evening incidentally at 8.30 your city station will broadcast the special press preview of this exhibit to be officially opened by Mayor Impeletary before 5,000 invited guests. The time again 8.30 this evening. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. biked tomorrow starting G