This is the United Nations calling the people to the world. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The United Nations Radio has for the past quarter of an hour been broadcasting to listeners in Europe of the station WRCA, broadcasting over 19.63 meters. And now we pause to welcome to this broadcast our listeners in and around the city of New York. And this broadcast comes to them from United Nations Radio with the cooperation of New York's municipal broadcasting station, WNYC. This is in reality a program which is calling listeners throughout the world, because aside from our broadcasts being toward Europe and that toward New York and its environment, we shall in approximately an hour and a quarter be joined by a transmitter being toward South Africa with a direct relay so that the people of the Union of South Africa will also be in a position to listen to this inaugural session of the United Nations General Assembly. We're speaking to you for the first time in the Great Hall of the United Nations General Assembly here at UN New York. Already, as we've told our listeners in Europe during the past quarter of an hour, we have had, in our experience, six regular sessions of the General Assembly. We've had one special session of the Assembly, and two sessions which, while not complete, were really a continuation of previous sessions begun in London and Paris. And so, the opening of the General Assembly, it would really not bring us, no longer, this feeling of great excitement, this feeling that something enormous and special in the history of the world is about to begin. And yet, each year, as we think to ourselves that the opening of the session will be perhaps something so plundering, we come to the conclusion that we have been wrong. Today, something extremely unusual has been added to the United Nations, the opening of its great new headquarters in New York. And so, for the first time, we speak to you from our headquarters of the United Nations Radio in this great hall. The session of the General Assembly will probably begin sometime within the next 27 minutes. We hope during that time to be able to give you a description of this hall as we see it, and a little later on take you to some of our colleagues who are standing at the delegate sentence and at the public entrance elsewhere, and give you their impressions as they come from their stations, watching the arrival of the delegates. However, first a few words about this great hall and about the milling groups of delegates arriving from 60 countries of the earth, who are now coming in for the first time to the new home of the United Nations, and who are looking for their delegation's message. In the first place, as we look down into this hall, we have the impression of a great circle. A circle with walls which converge upward toward the dome of this building through which the daylight can stream. Our general impression here is one of gold and green and blue. For, around the walls of this circular portion of the great hall, there are wooden, very thin pilates, as we might call them, although they actually aren't. They're strips of wood gilded, which give an impression of great height and also intimacy as they converge upward, divided into three different banks. Behind those gold strips, we see the blue of the walls, and there's a blue reflected also in the windows of the numerous radio, television, photography, and press booths, which are planking in this hall, the Presidential Tribune. The standard behind the backdrop, if you like, of this hall, is an enormous emblem of the United Nations, which is a polar projection of the globe surrounded by two olive branches. And that is flanked by other circles which eventually will contain the coats of arms of the member countries. Below that is the Presidential Tribune, which will be occupied in a short time by Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico, who was president of the last session of the General Assembly held last year in Paris. There are two seats flanking him, one for the Secretary General and one for Mr. Lee's assistant. On a slightly lower level, the Speaker's Tribune, and then the rows of delegate's benches. As we look down there now, we see photographers who are aiming their cameras at groups of delegates down below, with numerous bits of lightning down there as the flash bulbs go off. Well, there is the general view. The delegates' desks present a picture of green on blonde wood, with, at this point, yellow and white documents on them. Chairs are posted in beige and blue, light blue. Many delegates, many photographers, many flash bulbs, and the dark green of the carpet. And toward the rear of this part of the hall, which is almost a self-contained circle in itself, some 115 feet in diameter, and 75 feet high, looking toward the dome, the great hall opens out into a larger circle, which contains the press gallery, the observers gallery, and the public gallery. And that part of the room is flanked by two enormous murals by Fermat Leger, which, as far as the artist himself, I believe, has maintained, have no pictorial significance, but are just designed in color. There's the general aspect now of this great hall, in which there's a great hubbub at this point, as delegates come in, they haven't seen each other since the last session. They're shaking hands, renewing acquaintances, they're looking for their own tables. And incidentally, you know that by a lot drawn some weeks ago, it fell to the Soviet Union to occupy the first row of delegates' benches to the right of the Presidential Tribune. And from that point on, the roster of the United Nations, in alphabetical order, will follow until the alphabet is complete, in the rear of the delegates' portion, with, on the left of the Speaker's Tribune, the delegation of the Union of South Africa. There, now, is the picture which we see from our radio booth. We'd like you, at this point, to join with us some of our colleagues, who have been, and still are, at the main entrance of delegates, and at the public entrance outside this great hall. And for their impressions, we take you now, over to our colleagues, at the delegates' entrance. Go ahead. October 14th, 1952. United Nations Headquarters, New York. The seventh session of the General Assembly is about to begin, in its brand new, permanent headquarters building, in New York. Good morning, everyone. This is the first broadcast, from the great hall of the brand new General Assembly building. From where I stand, I have a very good picture, of the delegates' entrance of the Assembly building. As a matter of fact, I'm standing just inside the lobby. Here goes Madame Pandit. Madame Pandit, the chief Indian delegate, has come by, and she's been ambassador from India to Washington for some time now. But this is her first General Assembly after several years. We, at UN Radio, have reporters on hand, at various strategic spots, throughout the building. Here comes some of the distinguished visitors. They're just crowding close by. Perhaps you can hear their voices. We're facing First Avenue, at about 43rd or 44th Street. In front of us, are, as I say, the distinguished visitors, unusual, important people. We hear reporters, shouting in the background. And there's a man from one of the, news services. Another chap behind us that we just turned around to see, is from a press association. We see the chief of our protocol section, of United Nations protocol section, greeting the delegates as they come in. It's quite a mad crowd coming by now. We understand. Yes, we saw Sir Gladwin Jeb just a moment ago. And as he checked his coat, Lady Jeb was waiting to go with him to the assembly hall. And then he'll take his place under the sign marked United Kingdom delegation. Actually, of course, it won't say delegation. It will simply say United Kingdom. Now, let's see. Here is the United Nations photographer who's trying to line up several of the delegates in a little group picture, and try to keep those he doesn't want out. And this is quite a bit of a job. Yes, this is the first time we believe that the flags have been raised in front of this particular building. Now here, just in front of me, is Mr. Abe Eben, the chief delegate of Israel to the United Nations. And there goes Victor Belaunde of Peru. And now we see Enrique Fabregat of Uruguay shaking hands with several of his friends. Zafrullah Khan has just gone by of Pakistan. And let me see who else we see. There is Mr. Clifton Webb of New Zealand. Mr. Casey of Australia has just gone by. We haven't seen Mr. Austin Unden, the foreign minister of Sweden. Yes, there he is now. He is coming through the door. And many people are trying to shake his hand. Fine. Now, ladies and gentlemen, just coming up to our microphone is Mr. Wallace K. Harrison, the chief architect of the United Nations. How does this scene look to you, Mr. Harrison? Well, it looks as though there may be something going wrong before we know it. Do you anticipate any difficulties? No, but the best laid plans of mice and men bring you into trouble sometimes. How has it been, Mr. Harrison, to be the chief architect of this building? Has it given you a great many headaches? Certainly has. It's been terrible. Really? But you're all excited about this, I trust? You bet I am. Thank you very, very much. And now back in the booth again, ladies and gentlemen. We are about to give you some indication of the agenda for this morning's opening session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. As you know, the tradition in United Nations assemblies is that the session is opened by the president of the preceding session. And since the president of the session held in Paris last year was Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico, he will be the temporary president opening this morning's proceedings. Then also, following the tradition of the United Nations for its General Assemblies, there will be one minute of silent prayer or meditation. The delegations of sixty countries assembled in this great diplomatic gathering will then be addressed by the Honorable Vincent Impeliteri, the mayor of the city of New York. It will be an additional address by Mr. Warren Austin, the permanent representative of the United States to the United Nations, who will speak this morning in his capacity as chairman of the headquarters advisory committee, and undoubtedly will, in that capacity, present this new great invitation. And we will, in that capacity, present this new great hall of the United Nations to the organization. After that, the Secretary General, Mr. Trigval Lee, will address the session of the assembly, and then there will be an additional address by Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo, who is the temporary president. After that, there will be just two items of business during this morning's meeting, as far as we can see. One will be a perfunctory appointment of a committee, and yet that will be a committee which will have a rather delicate job to do in one or two cases, but otherwise a job which is always a matter of routine. That will be the credentials committee. For some years now, at the opening of each new session of each organ of the United Nations, the Soviet delegation has challenged the credentials of the delegation of the national government of China. It may be that the Soviet delegation will follow that procedure again this morning. That matter will then probably be referred to this credentials committee. However, the appointment of this committee will be a matter of just a sentence or two by the temporary president, who will name several members of different delegations to the credentials committee. And then the assembly will pass on to the election of the permanent president of this session. You know that in electing the president of the General Assembly, there are no nominations and voting is by secret ballot. Already it's been reported that a likely choice for the presidency of the General Assembly will be the Minister for External Affairs of Canada, Mr. Lester B. Pearson. At any rate, it is likely that those eight items will constitute all of the business of the assembly for this morning. Well, delegates are still thronging into this great hall, and the photographers are still capturing on their films as many of these scenes of diplomatic gathering as they can. We're still waiting for the arrival of Dr. Louis Padilla Nervaux, of Secretary General Lee, and his assistant Mr. Cordier. And so, at this point, since we've already described this hall to you, we'd like to take you back again outside this great hall to another of our colleagues who is recording his impressions of the opening of this assembly. Over to you. I'm standing at the stop at the top of the grand staircase here on the second floor of the assembly hall. And the moment I'm surrounded by enormous press corps, a number of distinguished visitors, and a good many of the delegates who have just come into the building. On my left is Sir Gladwin Jebb of the United Kingdom delegation and Ambassador Henri Oppenot of France. The senior members of the Soviet delegation arrived just a few moments ago. And I noticed Madame Bijaya Lakshmi Pandit, the chief of the Indian delegation, Madame Pandit being the sister of Prime Minister Nehru of India. And just a few moments ago, also, Senator Lehman of New York, the former director of the UN's post-war relief agency, UNRWA, passed by. Senator Lehman is a distinguished guest for this morning's opening session. I'm moving along the corridor on the second floor here now. And on my right is the office of the secretary general immediately behind the speaker stand in the president's rostrum in the hall. And along with the secretary general's office, there is an office for the president of the general assembly. It will be occupied this morning by Ambassador Padilla Nervo of Mexico, who was the president of the last general assembly held in Paris a year ago. Later on this afternoon, that office will be occupied by the newly elected president of this year's assembly. That election, of course, will be held this morning. And moving along the corridor now, the passageway used by the delegates to get to the assembly hall, we're coming into the hall itself. I'm now standing at the very edge of the general assembly hall, which is filling rapidly. The delegates are beginning to take their seats at the desks, curved to stretch across the full width of the room facing the president's rostrum in the speaker stand. I see that the 400-odd seats for the press are also filling up. The international press corps, which covers the United Nations throughout the year, is considerably augmented during the general assembly period. And this morning's session, of course, being a particularly significant one, the first general assembly session ever to be held in the UN's permanent hall, here by Manhattan's East River. There are also nearly a thousand seats for visitors, and they will certainly be taken every last one of them this morning for this session. I might say here, by the way, that if you should happen to want to come here to United Nations headquarters to see the general assembly in session, you have only to call the United Nations a day or so in advance and ask for a reservation. It may not be possible to get that reservation immediately. I understand that the seats are pretty well taken up for the balance of this week. However, as the assembly progresses, there will undoubtedly be seats for you if you just call the United Nations. We're sorry to interrupt there, but we see that at this point from our radio booth, we can see that the temporary president of this session of the assembly, Dr. Luis Padilla-Nervo of Mexico, has come in, and he is standing at the Presidential Tribune, flanked by Secretary General Trigvali and his assistant, Mr. Andrew Cordier. As a matter of fact, there are many photographers standing on a level just beneath the Presidential Tribune, as the three officials of the United Nations assembly are standing there. Dr. Padilla-Nervo has the gavel in his hand as this scene is recorded by the photographers. Again, we have the impression of subdued lightning in the room as the flashlight bulbs go off, and now a tremendous spotlight has been focused upon the Presidential Tribune. Mr. Lee is now signaling to the photographers to leave. The delegates seem to be in their seats. Dr. Padilla-Nervo will probably wrap his gavel once to indicate that the session is about to begin, asking delegates to take their seats, and then we shall take you over to the floor. Dr. Lee is now the United Nations Unies who will talk about New York. Dr. Lee is now listening to the first minute and then the inaugural session of the National Unies. Dr. Lee is now in the grand room of the National Unies. Dr. Luis Padilla-Nervo, of Mexico, the President, by interim of this session of the National Unies, is at his place. Dr. Lee is now in the grand room of the National Unies, is at the beginning of the National Unies. ladies and gentlemen, was for our French-speaking listeners throughout Europe. We are now watching as out of the hubbub on the floor below comes order. Here is the gavel of Dr. Luis Padilla-Nervo. We take you down now to the floor of the Great Hall of the United Nations General Assembly here in New York. The first meeting of the seventh session of the General Assembly of the United Nations opens. According to Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, I would like to invite the representatives to stand for a minute of silent prayer and meditation. At this point, all of the 600 delegates to the United Nations General Assembly, all of the members of their delegations and visitors and the officials of the United Nations have risen for this minute of silent prayer or meditation at this opening of the seventh regular session of the Assembly. Now, all the delegates, all the visitors, all the members of the United Nations who are in the Great Hall of the General Assembly are seated at this minute of silence consacring to prayer or meditation. Ambassadorotechnology H 그리사�им The Asamblea General The General Assembly of the United Nations today begins its session at the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. And at this moment we have with us the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeliteri, who will now take the floor. We will also hear from the President of the Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee, Mr. or the Honorable Warren Austin, and the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Trigby Lee. I shall call first upon Mayor Impeliteri. The Mayor of the City of New York arises from his chair at the side of the Assembly Hall and thanks for Mr. Warren. Voici le Mayor de New York, Mr. Impeliteri. Dr. Nervo, Mr. Lee, distinguished guests and delegates. As I greet you this morning, I recall with great pride the day in October 1946, when as the then acting Mayor of the City of New York, I had the great privilege of welcoming the delegates at the first formal opening of the General Assembly of the United Nations in Flushing Meadow Park. Meadow Park. That was a memorable and a magnificent occasion. Born in an atmosphere of goodwill, of optimism, and of hope. All of us thrilled to the visible evidences of a great universal effort toward global understanding and peace. I said at that time that the people of this city, deeply conscious of the vital importance of your deliberations, extended a most enthusiastic and friendly welcome to the delegates. I said that we felt a sincere confidence that your efforts would be rewarded with ultimate success. Six years have passed since that historic event. They have been difficult years. They have been marked with great successes and with some serious setbacks. Time undoubtedly has reduced to some degree the original optimism and even perhaps some of the goodwill. But I submit to you delegates, it has not diminished the hopes which rest with you, nor has it diminished the sincerity of the freedom-loving people of the world in their efforts for universal peace. And it has not diminished the enthusiasm of the people of the City of New York for your objectives. Public opinion in this city and nation supports the role of a determined and strong United Nations organization in its mission to resist and stamp out aggression the world over. the people of the country. So today, I repeat that friendly welcome to you in their behalf and reiterate the confidence that your decisions based on the equality of human rights will finally restore a secure peace to the world. I assure you that the people of this city have a deep-seated faith in the ability of men of all nationalities, all creeds, and of all walks of life to reach a common understanding without subsequent rancor, recrimination, or resort to force of arms. It was this kind of faith which prompted us here in the City of New York to urge upon you the selection of our great metropolis as your permanent home. We set forth what we felt were the practical advantages of making your permanent home here. We put the great facilities of this city at your complete disposal. We promised and gave to the United Nations organization full cooperation in the construction of this impressive building and the development of the surrounding United Nations Plaza. As we view the spacious and imposing panorama that has emerged from the welter of three years of construction work, the one that has been returned. We feel well rewarded. The vehicular tunnel in First Avenue, our most complicated engineering job, is scheduled to be finished next spring. then this magnificent home of the United Nations, with all its beauty and convenience, will be complete. And it is our belief that future historians will record that from this site emanated the wisdom and concord that brought peace and happiness to a troubled world. The city of New York is now indeed the world center of hope. Our people are aware of their individual responsibility in providing an atmosphere conducive to mutual understanding. Through the years, we have gotten along very well with the people of all nations. We have made and are making and will continue to make every effort to provide you with our traditional hospitality and cooperation. We greet you in the spirit of true friendship. We wish you Godspeed in your work as you begin your momentous seventh session in this new General Assembly Hall. Our common destinies are completely in your hands. Thank you very much. That, ladies and gentlemen, was the Honorable Vincent Impelotere, Mayor of the City of New York. Vous venez d'entendre, mesdames et messieurs, le maire de New York. Et voici le président de l'Assemblée générale. Here is Dr. Padilla Nervo. And now, from the bench of the American delegation in the central part of the very first row of this hall, Ambassador Warren Austin, as chairman of the headquarters advisory committee, goes to the speaker's rostrum. Voici Monsieur Warren Austin de la Delegation des Etats-Unis. Fellow delegates, we stand together today in a bright beam of history. Human craftsmanship expressed now in these United Nations buildings, earlier raised magnificent structures in Asia, and Gorwak and the Tower of Mahal. Such craftsmanship in the Western Hemisphere built Mian tempers and modern cities in Latin America. It lifted high in France and England. Cathedral, arches of sharks and salisbury. Looking about us to these buildings, we discover strong affiliations with the world's greatest cultures. We recognize a heritage with roots in Egypt and Greece. The splendor of this conception inspires us to work in this noble capital for universal peace. Let us ask who are the craftsmen of this capital of peace. We record the significant action of President Truman and the Congress of the United States in inviting the United Nations to make its home here. We feel deeply the moving generosity of John D. Rockefeller, Jr., who gave this side. We are grateful to the state of New York for enabling laws. And to the city of New York, these acts made it possible to launch the structure over streets and riverfronts. We recall the role played by Trigva Lee, Secretary General and the Chief Administrative Officer of the organization. He chose the very elect among architects and speeded completion of the structures toward this day. We rightly think of Wallace Harrison, whose administrative and architectural genius harmonized the multiplicity of ideas brought forth by the Board of Consulting Engineers, architects. The ten who foregathered with Director Harrison and conceived the composition from the art, knowledge, and skill of several continents were Austria's Swallow, Belgium's Rufo, Brazil's Niemeyer, Canada's Cormier, China's Lian, France's Le Corbusier, Sweden's Markilius, Soviet Union's Basov, United Kingdom's Robertson, and Uruguay's Villamojo. These were the designers who, under Director Harrison, projected a topless tower, lighted from the east and from the west with wide assembly amphitheater open to the nations of the world. Let us look further. We find the work of other craftsmen, for these buildings represent more than a rich heritage from the past. They evidence more than leadership from architects, engineers, and statesmen. How many hands helped create Canada's gift, the great entrance doors for the General Assembly? What are the names of men and women in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden whose labor helped beautify the three main council chambers? Who cut and fashioned the wood from Australia, Britain, and New Zealand, which has enriched the General Assembly building? Who brought back pebbles, black pebbles from roads so that the fountain given by countless schoolchildren could be further beautified? And what are the stories back of each child given? In these headquarters of the United Nations, there are combined stone, glass, metal, wood, and textiles with elements of the human heritage which the Charter promotes. Thus, we, the peoples of the United Nations, animate our symbols with soul-stirring desire for supremacy of morality, law, and order. These buildings are grounded physically on the rock of Manhattan, but they are established in venerable aspirations of men, hearers and doers of the word. Men likened to a wise man who built his house upon a rock. They are founded upon the sacrifice of those who have died for the United Nations in Korea and in the selflessness of others who, like Count Bernadotte, have given their lives to the peaceful ideal of settlement of this peace. These buildings symbolize our faith and our collective determination to defend human lives and extend human liberty. But these great structures would remain inert without works. Aggression could crush the craftsmen who have lifted these buildings of peace. Power to destroy has grown to include power to sear the cultural resources which collectively gave purpose to these buildings. However, resources of moral power can be achieved and magnificently strengthened through deeds and the spirit of the word. Better understanding of men and women in all nations is the vital necessity for unity and cooperation to maintain international peace and security through these United Nations headquarters. As we take our places in the General Assembly and at the Council meetings, let us begin all our work in the name of God for the solution of all our problems is a spiritual one. Our collective practice of truth, justice, and friendship among nations can radiate the beam of history into every region and among all peoples. Thus, to craftsmanship we shall add statesmanship in this capital of peace. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And that, ladies and gentlemen, was Mr. Warren Austin of the United States speaking as the chairman of the headquarters advisory committee. C'était Mr. Warren Austin des Etats-Unis en sa capacité de président de la commission consultative pour le siège des Nations Unies. Et voici maintenant M. Trickville-Lee, secrétaire général. Here, ladies and gentlemen, is the address by Mr. Trickville-Lee, the secretary general of the United Nations. Mr. President, Mr. Mayor, honorable delegates to the seventh session of the General Assembly, and distinguished guests. It is with deep emotion that I, as secretary general, would you welcome to your new home and your permanent home completed just seven years after the United Nations charter came into force. When I became secretary general, the infant United Nations had no home except in the hearts of men. We didn't know where the headquarters would be except that it would be somewhere in the United States. There was no money inside to build it. There was not even a plan on an architect's drafting board. Through the years since then, the creation of the permanent headquarters has been one of my greatest responsibilities to you as secretary general. Now, here it stands, aspiring in graceful lines, but, as said, solid upon the Manhattan rock, this great hall in which we are gathered together today. in this I hope there is a good omen for all men of good will. The United Nations is founded upon the eternal truths of men's common brotherhood and the interdependence of peoples. It aspires to win wider recognition and application of these truths throughout the world. We moved to New York early in 1946. Many of you will recall those days charged with excitement and hard work under difficult circumstances. The first meeting of the Security Council was in the converted gymnasium of Hunter College, and the Secretariat and delegations were scattered among temporary offices and hotels throughout the city. I remember also the meetings that we held later in the year in the Henry Hudson Hotel. when our interim headquarters were set up at Lake Success and the General Assembly was accommodated in the New York City building at Flushing Meadow in the autumn of 1946, it seemed almost by contrast with our previous existence as though we were well established. Many of you will share with me lasting memories of Lake Success. These hastily converted factory buildings were hardly the most efficient setting for our labors, but much good work was done there and at Flushing Meadow in the struggle for peace and progress in the world. It was at Flushing Meadow in December 1946 that the final decision on the permanent headquarters was made. the choice of the New York area had been questioned and to break what seemed a stalemate, a subcommittee of the General Assembly had been sent on an inspection tour to San Francisco, Boston, Philadelphia and three locations around New York. The Assembly Committee, the Fifth Committee, began to debate this subcommittee's report on December 4. It was still debating on December 11 when the United States Representative, Ambassador Warren Austin, whom you have just heard speak so eloquently of the new headquarters, announced that Mr. John D. Rockefeller Jr. had offered to give $8.5 million on behalf of the Rockefeller family, a prominent United Nations family, to buy the site on which we are met today. The Assembly accepted this offer and our search for a home was ended. The United Nations was promised every cooperation by the government of the United States and the city of New York in the creation of the permanent headquarters. The cooperation has been wholehearted and generous. The $65 million interest-free loan granted by the United States made possible the building in which we now work. The city, in addition to giving us additional waterfront rights, embarked upon extensive improvements of the approaches. In 1947, after the necessary laws had been passed by the Congress of the United States, the state of New York and the city of New York, I was able under the authority of the General Assembly to accept formally both the land purchased by the Rockefeller gift and the portion of the land conveyed to the United Nations by the city. It was imperative because of the improvised nature of the facilities available to the Assembly and the principal organs of the United Nations, the permanent headquarters should be built as soon as possible. But there were other considerations, too. International collaboration on design was essential for the capital of a world organization. Development of the site called for the best engineering and architectural talent in all lands. Also, it was important that I be close coordination of United Nations construction with the area improvements being carried forward by the city. From the beginning, I was assisted greatly by the headquarters advisory committee of 16 members, whose chairman throughout has been Ambassador Warren Austin. His and the committee's continued encouragement and magnificent support, backed unswervingly by the great and true friend of the United Nations, President Harry S. Truman have been indispensable to the building of the headquarters. It was with advice and guidance of the headquarters advisory committee and with the approval and authority of the General Assembly during these past busy years that I made the necessary decisions and arrangements. It was not difficult to decide upon the chief architect for the great project. Wallace K. Harrison, because of his wide experience and great distinction was the obvious choice. At his suggestion, the member governments were asked to nominate architects and engineers to serve on an international board of design. Representatives of 15 member countries were selected and spent some five months with Mr. Harrison developing the basic architectural scheme for these buildings and their surroundings. Ambassador Warren Austin has already named ten of these men. I should like to add my own personal tribute to all of them. Surely, it must be recognized as a great achievement in international cooperation and collaboration. This success of an international team of architects in producing designs acceptable to all of them and approved unanimously of the General Assembly. When the designers from all over the world had returned to their homes, the great task of executing the plan was the heavy responsibility which Mr. Harrison and his staff assumed under my responsibility to the General Assembly. I would have liked today to mention many members of Mr. Harrison's staff if there had been time but there is one I must mention. Mr. James A. Dawson, Chief Construction Engineer. His executive skill and his diplomacy never fail day in and day out to keep things running smoothly. We have had many difficulties delays, shortages of materials, construction problems and rising building costs but we have so far been able to surmount them all. If we were starting over again today Mr. President it would cost at least 100 million dollars not 68 million dollars to create these buildings buildings that not only we but generations to come after us will I hope hold in pride and affection. There are so many to thank today. There are the architects and engineers and construction experts but there are also the draftsmen who poured over details of a segment of a single plan. The workmen with drill and rivet hammer crane or bulldozer or shovel the detailed plans for the foundations the design of the complicated structural steel and the specifications for the large and complex mechanical installations demand the best of the best engineering talent in the world. I wish that I could thank them all individually today everyone I wish that I could thank individually all of the many contracting firms who together with the great labor organizations provided the management and the workers for the day-to-day building operations. What has been accomplished here in brief time is the result of well-organized teamwork by American labor and American industry when I pay tribute to the Fuller Turner Welsh and Sletric company general contractors for these buildings for a job well done I am thinking of every single person who contributed time skill and devotion to the task I would emphasize my gratitude to every single worker I am sure that men often worked harder and with more interest because the rivets they were driving the stone they were setting the concrete they were pouring and the wires they were fastening had for them in this instance a special significance and meaning we have only to look about you to see that the authorities of the city of New York under Mayor Odwyer and later under Mayor Impelitari are carrying forward the improvements around the site which they volunteered to undertake the construction of Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive a cooperative venture by the city and the United Nations was completed early this year and most of the alterations on the other streets have made good progress with the assistance of Manhattan borough president Mr. Robert S. Wagner Jr. The city has kept its commitments to the United Nations kept them when many demands were being made upon the authorities for other public projects and rising costs necessitated additional appropriations and special efforts much of the credit for the cooperation between the city and the United Nations must go to city construction coordinator Mr. Robert Moses whose constant interest and enthusiastic support has been most helpful to me and to us all New York's friendly hospitality first demonstrated in the days of Hunter College Lake Success and Plushing Meadow has been unplegging for this I am grateful our buildings have been enriched by many gifts from many member nations Mr. Austin in his tribute has mentioned some of them eventually I am sure we will have at this headquarters both within the buildings and in the landscape areas something of the culture of all the member nations that is as it should be already declarations and furnishings the gifts of Denmark Norway and Sweden have been installed in the three council chambers in this building lacewood and remover paneling for the office suite of the assembly president and for the delegates entrance hall are the gifts of Australia and New Zealand the United Kingdom has paneled and furnished a nice committer room a gift of tapestry from Belgium created by Peter Colfs has been accepted for the south entrance area Canada gave the beautiful ornamental metal doors at the north main entrance Brazil plans to give murals for the south lobby by its great muralist Candido Portinari Yugoslavia has offered an important work by the renowned sculptor Anton Augustinsic for the area north of the building Greece is giving a classical statue for the gardens Ecuador is giving carpeting for the committee area and rugs have been given by India Turkey and Iran in the courtyard of the secretariat building is a fountain given by the school children of the United States pebbles in this pool were gathered by the women and children of the island of Rhodes as Ambassador Austin just mentioned and are the gift of the government of Greece the city of New York has made an appropriation for the greater part of the ornamental fence which will surround the site Israel is providing stone from Jerusalem for the gardens the Netherlands has indicated its desire to make a gift for the main entrance ramp at the front of the assembly building South Africa is planning a gift of sculpture the Guggenheim Foundation of New York City has donated the services of the Dominican painter Jose V. Lasanetti who has begun a mural in the corridor outside the trusteeship council chamber the two abstract murals on the walls of this assembly hall by the great French artist Fernand Léger were made possible by a generous donor I do not doubt that there will be many other gifts to come I am almost sorry to say that some gifts are hidden for you and I had almost forgotten to mention one name namely Mr. Thomas Watson he has given us the world's most modern equipment for this rostrum and for the president's desk when the speakers are coming here now they will find green light yellow light red light and a big watch so the president will have in his hands every possibility to be at the will of the general assembly and to control the lengths of all the speeches may I this way thank Mr. Watson for his very valuable gifts all these things add to the beauty and distinction of a headquarters which quite apart from its noble function already is known throughout the world as a great and interesting international architectural achievement this workshop for peace by its simplicity its great grace and its clean architectural line is already becoming a focal point for visitors from United States and from all over the world there is much to be added of course in the way of embellishments landscaping furnishings and decoration but we must all rejoice that at long last our permanent headquarters is fully established occupied and at work it is well that we are at work in this new home and that we have at last all the tools you the delegates and we in the secretariat need for full efficiency you will need them all in the immense difficulties which confront you political social and economic we must all work with a high heart and firm determination as we begin this seventh session of the General Assembly we begin our labors in a home that is built to last for generations to come we do so in the knowledge that we are traveling on a long and hard road in our fight to prevent a third world war and to improve the chances of lasting peace this session Mr. President upon which you are embarking is only one stage and a very difficult one in a journey which will take many many years I do not today how far you can move forward in the next nine weeks the secretariat of the United Nations and I are at your disposal and we will do our utmost to assist you to have a successful session in this new but permanent home of the United Nations as your chief administrator I wish you all welcome to the permanent headquarters of the United Nations and to the seventh session of the General Assembly the applause which you hear ladies and gentlemen is for the Secretary General of the United Nations Mr. Tricvelli l'Assemblée Générale des Nations Unies vient d'entendre la locution de M. Tricvelli secrétaire général et maintenant vous allez entendre la locution de M. Padilla Nervaux du Mexique and now there will be an address by the president the temporary president of the Assembly Dr. Luis Padilla Nervaux of Mexico for the cordial words of greeting he has extended the valuable collaboration which the authorities of the city of New York have offered to the United Nations to facilitate its work and to enhance the permanent headquarters the members is a true expression of the broad international outlook characteristic of this great city and it deserves our sincere appreciation the General Assembly rightly should also extend its gratitude to the members of the Health Warriors Advisory Committee whose advice and important decisions have helped to guide the planning and the construction of these buildings which have contributed decidedly to the completion of this unique undertaking and to the group of planners technicians and workers of all levels who have participated in one form or another in the construction of buildings which are to be called born to serve as the outstanding monument of world peace very convenient Today begins its seventh session before an international scene where the dominant notes are still those of preoccupation and anxiety. This is the first time that the General Assembly meets in this magnificent building which from now on will be its own permanent headquarters. Let us do all in our power to make this coincidence acquire a symbolic meaning so that the inauguration of our home will be a sign of our determination to remain under the aegis of a common ideal. In the last year, not much can be doubted. The world, the importance of the organization has been made obvious work in the social field. The United Nations through its principal organs and its specialized agencies is able to maintain the solidarity of peoples and nations in the hope of bettering human existence. And so will the world maintain its hope in the United Nations. An organization that can in this way, daily, carry out its activity in every corner of the world, is sowing the seeds of a peace that will irrevocably grow one day from human welfare and wisdom. It is imbued with and under the auspices of the folks of our people that we meet today and face our tasks with enthusiasm, understanding as we do that a patient and concentrated effort will finally lead us to the realization and fulfillment of the principles and the objectives of the Charter. In the field of political accomplishment, the credit side of this year is not too heartening. All activities are shadowed by the fear of a future war. And in this atmosphere, there are very few who dare talk about agreement and conciliation because they are doubtful whether the sincerity of their sentiments will be taken seriously. Because of this, it is all the more urgent to assert that our function, particularly the function of the small and middle powers, is a function of conciliation which we must insist on undertaking right now, before it be too late. It is an essential condition of the very life of the United Nations that it serve as a center to harmonize the differences and the efforts of the nations in order to attain universal objectives. The danger would arise that the states which are now members of the organization would find themselves irrevocably separated, or that they should group themselves with no other criteria than their national or immediate interest. All the great questions pending before us have either become alarmingly more acute, or they have fallen hopeless of immediate solution into inextricable labyrinth. After the longest and most patient negotiations that history records, the Korean question is now again being debated by guns. The disarmament commission has not advanced in its task. The problems of the unification of Germany and the peace treaty with Austria are practically in suspense. Everything seems reduced to sterility, and wherever we look in this sad venture, we find pessimism and coldness. always two years ago, before Korea, one could think that peace, if the state of things that has existed since 1945 could be called peace, that peace was yet too young in comparison with the duration of the war. of the war. One could also hope that after all, time would help to strengthen and mature the infant words of a world that had just been reborn to peace after undergoing a terrible catastrophe. Today, we can well wonder, is the crisis in the collaboration which united the great powers during the World War II in danger of becoming definite and irrevocable? Is it still possible to build something solid for the time being upon the evils that such a break has provoked? After seven years of life of the United Nations, we must recognize objectively that instead of having reached our basic aims, we are faced with a situation in which the possibilities of peace are darker for the world. A situation in which the world, full of alarm and fear, is everyday losing, as it has lost during seven years, its best opportunities of spiritual and material progress. One cannot contemplate this picture without sorrow. One cannot but think of the final hour of responsibility, when the world will call to task those who have driven it to this situation. This is so because nothing exists except freedom, except freedom that can be worth one hour of well-being and prosperity of millions of people. Fortunately, however, the United Nations has been able to counteract some of the negative factors with certain measures that clearly show a desire to overcome its initial mistakes and deficiencies. In this spirit, together with the collective security system of the Charter, there has been developed a subsidiary system that can function either under the authority of the Security Council, which as yet lacks elements to carry out any coercive action, as well as under the authority of the General Assembly, as a substitute measure, if the Security Council is unable to take decisions. This year, the Collective Measures Committee has, in its essential aspects, finished its study of the methods and procedures that the United Nations could use within the program of the Uniting for Peace resolution in case of aggression. Many of the Member States are thinking, nevertheless, that this system can perhaps not be as effective in the case of big power aggression as was the original system written in the Charter, which did not contemplate this eventuality. The effectiveness of any system of social security and collective security does not depend so much on its perfection and theory as on the psychological elements which determine and maintain the solidarity of states. Perhaps the greatest strength of the United Nations resides in the unalterable adherence of the majority of members to the principles of the Charter and in the love that each of them has for its own liberty and independence. We have unshakable confidence, therefore, that each of them, in the moment of trial, will be behind its convictions and democratic ideals with all the strength it can command. There are others who hold a different type of doubt on the direction which the United Nations is taking in the realm of collective security and other matters. Such doubts are to be found primarily in juridical thought and they revolve around a basic question. This question is whether or not the principles of the World Organization are being sacrificed to a policy of balance among the big powers and if, consequently, at least in theory, a step back has not been taken in the conception of a security which, as history has been taken, as history has repeatedly proved, has been incapable of preventing wars. In this respect we must admit that facts have brought about these developments. 외국 state protests are not엔 찡itligious thoughts-trust- pressure and Paris' rebel- collective security, a system that will place all aspects of coercive action, that is, political decisions as well as control of military operations, under the guiding principle of absolute equality of responsibility for all member states. To be consistent with the objects and principles of the United Nations, such a system should first seek the effective elimination of war, as was sought through the unanimity rule of the big powers, and only in second place the task of maintaining international peace and security. No system of collective security can be complete if it limits itself to methods and procedures to be employed in case of aggression. Any complete system of security which wishes to solve conflict before sanctioning transgressions must necessarily include the possibilities of peaceful arrangements. In this connection, the fact that the Collective Measures Committee has already laid the groundwork for such an action suggests the convenience that a similar group should study methods and procedures that may help member states of the United Nations in the peaceful solution of their disputes. the resolution of the human rights commission on the rights of peoples and nations to their free determination. I would first like to mention the resolutions adopted by the human rights commission on the rights of peoples and nations to their free determination. I am not unaware of the fact that these resolutions may provoke controversy. But I am sure that the debate will not be meaningless. But on the contrary, that it will make it possible to find the most simple terms for establishing the extent of a principle which is embedded in the United Nations Charter. The fundamental value of this principle cannot be denied. Individual human rights reside in this principle and without it they have no sense and no reality. The respect that this principle will merit from all will help in attaining the future independence of those peoples and nations who do not as yet possess this inestimable good. And it will also be a powerful force in bringing about international friendship and peace. There may be many conflicting opinions about the text provided by the human rights commission. But in its substance, it should satisfactorily be accepted as representing a step forward in the study of a greatly important problem. And that these texts must be looked at satisfactorily. I should also like to stress as especially satisfactory the work undertaken during the 14th session of the Economic and Social Council, and in particular its examination of the question of the economic development of underdeveloped countries. I do not know whether in the midst of the worries which beset us so urgently, if we are aware of the extraordinary prominence of the functions which the Charter gives to the Economic and Social Council itself. The Council, perhaps aware of the present limitations of its possibilities, has not as yet grasped the scope of its mission in order to carry out fully and with authority. This situation should change radically, because the Economic and Social Council is the best instrument that the United Nations has to establish an organic peace in this world. The economic development of the underdeveloped countries at the same time is the most important problem facing those who are in the Economic and Social Council. The problem is so vast that it has become the very essence of the Council's mission. Technical assistance for economic development during the present year has developed in such a way as to give much hope for its effectiveness, and particularly so in countries of very little or no industrial or agricultural techniques. We must understand, however, that technical assistance is only a preliminary step towards economic development, and that its positive effects on the receiving countries depend on a parallel and proportionate development of national and international financing. Because of this, a recent decision of the Economic and Social Council has special importance. This is one which calls for a study of the possibility of setting up an international fund to give long-term loans and subsidies for carrying out non-self-liquidating projects in the less privileged countries. There is no doubt that the salvation of the world is to be found in the help to be given these countries so that they may speedily improve their agriculture and their industry. The corresponding expansion of world economy cannot help but prove beneficial to all rich and poor. It cannot but bring about in many countries a state of economic stability which may immediately result in the strengthening of international solidarity. The Achilles heel of the free nations of the world is the state of poverty, disease, and ignorance in which the majority of them live. This is an essential weakness that the possession of a few modern weapons of war can neither help nor hide. The Korean question now returns to the General Assembly which had abstained from dealing with it, perhaps not without some undesirable consequences, while the talks of Panmunjong seemed able to reach a satisfactory conclusion. The development of events was anxiously watched by the world from the moment that these talks entered a dead end because of the prisoner of war question which was, at least apparently, the only unsolved issue. Anxieties and fears have been further accentuated by the resumption of hostilities on a considerable scale during the last few months and by the suspension of the armistice talks. It is not easy to judge this question. It is not easy to judge this question. Not all member states have the full ability to judge it in all its aspects. And yet, notwithstanding this, one thing does appear clear. And that is, that if in effect the armistice has been depending only on the prisoner of war question, why have not other possibilities been sought to solve this question and arrive at an honorable armistice in some other form? Because once the objectives of aggression were frustrated, the efforts of the United Nations should have been concentrated on preventing further destruction of life and property. The non-forcible repatriation of prisoners of war is a healthy and forward-looking principle which only serves to give human rights their just supremacy over conventional norms and traditional practices in this field. It is hardly conceivable how this principle can but give honor and glory to those who profess it. Nor how the two sides have not coincided in it unless it be for reasons foreign to the very substance of the principle itself. The non-forcible repatriation, together with a formula that would do away with any suspicions about the possible use of war prisoners in activities prejudicial to their countries of origin, should lead to the conclusion of an armistice, or should make clear that there never was the intention of concluding one. Mexico has presented a plan which would allow the non-repatriated war prisoners to find work in territories of member states of the United Nations willing to give them temporary asylum. Other countries may have or may present other formula. In any case, it is an inescapable duty to continue studying the problem as one more effort so that the Korean War may end. Gentlemen, I felt it to be my duty, in accordance with the President, to unfold before you the international situation that has developed between this and the last session of the General Assembly. I wanted to call your attention to the most important problems facing us today, because I am convinced that the United Nations still has before it the opportunity of establishing the rule of peace. The division of the world into two halves, on the one side the classical democracies, and on the other the people's democracies, is the root of all our difficulties. The effects of this split are found everywhere. We find them in each one of our states, and in the United Nations. They have constantly hampered our progress. They have made the work of government arduous and difficult. They have made international agreement impossible, and what is worth it. They have immensely harmed the man in the street, in his body and in his soul, imposing upon him untold sacrifices, and giving... This is United Nations radio broadcasting from the vast new hall of the United Nations General Assembly in New York. At this point, we ask our listeners in the United States and throughout Europe to stand by with us for just a moment, as we join a broadcast going to the Union of South Africa. Mesdames and Messieurs, Notre émission passe maintenant sur des antennes à destination de l'Union Sud-Africaine. Nous demandons votre indulgence pour quelques minutes pendant que nous adressons à nos auditeurs dans ce pays-là. Ladies and gentlemen of the South African radio audience, welcome to this broadcast, which comes to you from the great new hall of the United Nations General Assembly in New York. We're broadcasting from our radio booth in this hall the inaugural session of this seventh United Nations General Assembly. At this point, the assembly is being addressed by the temporary president, Dr. Luis Padilla Nervo of Mexico, in his capacity as president of the sixth session of the General Assembly. In just a moment, we shall take you down to the floor through the interpreter's booth, for Dr. Padilla Nervo is addressing the assembly in Spanish, and you will hear a portion of his remarks in English. First, however, we'd like to tell you that in this great hall upon which we are looking from our booth in the third level here, we see a very colorful scene, the predominant colors of which, by the way, are gold and green and blue. This hall is in the shape of a great circle with sloping walls going from the floor of the great chamber up toward the dome. It's surrounded by a decoration which recalls organ pipes, which are gold, and between them we see the blue of the walls, and behind the speaker's rostrum there is a great panel showing the emblem of the United Nations, the polar projection of the world surrounded by two olive branches. In the center of this hall, in the front, is the Presidential Tribune from which Dr. Nervo is now addressing the assembly. And the view which Dr. Nervo must have is of this circular hall spreading out with the delegates' benches, with room for sixty delegations, and beyond the first circle, an additional circle, with the spectators' galleries, and galleries for press, radio, and distinguished visitors. It just happens that by lot, the first row of delegates to be seated at the right of the President is that of the Soviet Union. And so, to the Union of South Africa has fallen the last row of delegates' benches, and there, looking out from our booth, we see the five delegates of the Union, Mr. Juster, Mr. Roberts, Dr. Vessels, Mr. Jordan, and Mr. Colton. And now, Dr. Nervo has just, and rather suddenly, it seemed to us, completed his address, and there is applause for the next developments in this session. We take you down to the floor of the assembly. must now appoint the credentials committee. Rule twenty-eight of the rules of procedure. Take it back from the floor at this point, because the assembly is about to go through a bit of procedure, culminating in the election of the permanent president of this session. It is thought at this time that the permanent president is likely to be the Minister for External Affairs of Canada, Mr. Lester B. Pearson. This is UN Radio speaking to you from the booth in the Great Assembly Hall. Listeners in South Africa will now be returned to our studios. Belgium, Belgium, Burma, Lebanon, New Zealand, Panama, Paraguay, Sweden, Soviet Union, United States. The names of delegations you have just heard, read by Dr. Padilla Nervo, are those composing the credentials committee, which as we told you earlier is the committee to examine the credentials of the 600 delegates to the assembly. And now back through the interpreters booth to Dr. Nervo. The credential committee will hold its meeting. The next item on the agenda is the election of the president of the seventh session of the General Assembly. Rule 92 of the rules of procedure states that all elections shall be held by secret ballot and that there shall be no nominations. The next item on the agenda is the first item in the House of Representatives. The second item on the House of Representatives will give the vote. Therefore, we will immediately hold the vote. Each delegation will write on the ballot paper the name of the person for whom that delegation wishes to vote. I would like to ask the representatives of Argentina and of Burma to serve as tellers and to take their place at the side or next to the urn, the representatives of Argentina and Burma. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, the elections for the permanent president of the seventh session of the General Assembly are about to take place. An urn has been placed in front of the Assembly on a stand just below the Speaker's rostrum. Each chief delegate has been provided with a ballot. The delegates of Burma and the Argentine have been invited to act as tellers. And in just a moment, the assistant to Mr. Trigvillie, that is Mr. Cordier, will call the roll of the member delegations. And at that point, the chief of each delegation will, in the usual manner, go forward and deposit his ballot. At this point, Mr. Cordier is reaching into a box in which there are small tokens bearing the names of member delegations. One is picked out by Dr. Nervo, who will announce the beginning of the roll call to start with the name of the delegation he has picked out. The vote will begin with Cuba. Cuba. And now, ladies and gentlemen, begins a familiar procession. The roll call begins with Cuba, and the chief of the Cuban delegation leaves his seat in this great Assembly Hall and moves forward to the ballot box to place therein his ballot bearing the Cuban choice for permanent president of the seventh regular session of the United Nations General Assembly. Meantime, as we speak to you, we should be able to hear in the background the voice of Mr. Cordier calling the roll of delegations. And as each name is called, the chief of delegation or acting chief goes forward to deposit the ballot. And so there is a great diplomatic procession at this point of chiefs of delegations bearing ballots. The representatives of Burma and the Argentine are standing alongside the ballot box. In just a few moments, when all these ballots have been deposited, they will take them to a table at the side, and they will count them. Monsieur Upnault of France has just deposited the French ballot, followed by Mr. Alexis Quiro of Greece. The roll call, which you probably can hear in the background, is continuing, and the procession of delegates is going on. We notice Mr. Tortors of the Icelandic delegation going forward. There is Mrs. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, the head of the India delegation, and Dr. Ellen Pallar of Indonesia, who is wearing a black velvet skullcap. Mr. Nasrallah Entazam of Iran, who is president of the fifth session of the General Assembly. And so the procession goes, Dr. Fadil Jamali of Iraq. We doubt that we recognize every one of the chief delegates here, so it would perhaps be a good idea not to name them. And yet, there is Mr. Abba Ibn of Israel and Dr. Joseph Bech of Luxembourg. Let us at this point, for just a brief moment, explain to our French-language listeners in Europe what is going on. We note that Mr. Nasrallah Entazam, a former president of the General Assembly, after depositing his delegation's choice for the permanent president of the seventh session, has gone up to the presidential dais to greet his successor, Dr. Padilla Nervo. He's now shaking hands with Mr. Trigli as the procession continues. Here is General Romulo of the Philippines, and we just promise to tell our French-language listeners so with your indulgence, we'll do so. Mr. پifter Warren has already passed on This is the inauguration of the 7th reading session of the pandemic of the Scripty Nud מהia, and you really look at how the General of the project is to choose its presidency. And you take Ос salud, Mr. H stitchんです, is talking about the government as a prime agreement. Or as could you 해, I wouldn't get any choices. I want to say the president of the general assembly, there is no nomination. The chief of each delegation has received a letter on which he has indicated the name of his choice for the general assembly. The general assembly is called the name of the general assembly. A little bit of a vent on the table of the speakers. The officers are the representatives of Argentina and Germany. We call and we see the grand défilet for so to speak diplomats in the world. In a few moments, when this défilet has been finished, the officers will take the bulletin, they will sit at a small table next to the next and they will count the bulletin to decide the permanent president of the general assembly. We already believe that the choice of the assembly will be Mr. Lester Pearson, the minister of the exterior affairs of Canada. Now that the call is finished. The officers take the urn, which is a box in white, in white, in white, for so to speak, and are now in order to count the voices. The other time, Mr. Luis Padilla Nervo, of Mexico, the president of the general assembly, he keeps his place at the presidential assembly. He is in order to salute the friends of the members of the delegates who are standing in front of him. And in a few minutes, we will learn about the choice of the general assembly for the presidency. Jusqu'à présent, au cours de notre émission et de cette cérémonie solennelle d'ouverture de l'Assemblée Générale, nous avons entendu plusieurs allocutions. Tout d'abord, celle du maire de New York, M. Impeliteri. Ensuite, nous avons entendu l'allocution prononcée par M. Warren Austin des États-Unis en sa guise de président de la commission consultative pour le siège des Nations Unies. Autrement dit, celui qui présidait le groupe qui s'occupait de la construction de ce siège des Nations Unies aux Nations Unies New York. Puis, c'était M. Tricvoli, secrétaire général des Nations Unies, qui a pris la parole. Et, suivant M. Lee, vous avez entendu l'adresse ou le discours de M. Padilla Nervo du Mexique, président provisoire de l'Assemblée Générale. Lorsque tous ces discours avaient été présentés, le président par intérim a nommé les membres de la commission de vérification des pouvoirs. Depuis un certain temps, à l'ouverture de chaque session de chaque organe des Nations Unies, l'Union soviétique avait l'habitude de demander que la délégation de la Chine nationaliste soit exclue des Nations Unies et qu'une délégation de la Chine populaire prenne sa place. Mais, aujourd'hui, ce n'en était pas ainsi. La commission des vérifications des pouvoirs a été nommée sans incident. Et, ensuite, l'Assemblée Générale a procédé aux élections pour choisir le président permanent de cette session. Maintenant, les scrutateurs sont en train de compter les voix. Il y a eu une espèce de suspension de séance qui n'a pas été déclarée formellement par M. Padilla Nervo, mais on attend. Et, pendant cet intervalle, nous pouvons vous dire que nous voyons de notre cabine radiophonique, dans la vaste salle de séance, un tableau plein de couleurs. Si nous nous mettions à la place du président de l'Assemblée Générale, nous verrions devant nous les bancs des délégués. Il y a quatre sections du parterre qui sont occupées par les 60 délégations. On a tiré au sort, il y a quelques semaines, pour décider quelle délégation qu'indrait la première rangée devant le président, et c'était l'Union soviétique. Et donc, dans la première rangée, nous voyons l'Union soviétique, les États-Unis, le Royaume-Uni, l'Uruguay, mais voici les résultats. Les résultats de l'Elections, qui sont présidents de l'Assemblée Générale. Les Tellers nous trouvons leurs résultats à Dr. Louis Padilla Nervo, qui est examinant les cours avec Mr. Cordier, et nous nous prenons vous à l'Assemblée. Le résultat de la vote est comme si vous avez. Un, number of ballots cast, 60. Un, number of abstentions, 5. Un, number of invalid ballots, none. Un, number of valid ballots, 50. La simple majority required for the election is of 28 votes. Mr. Pearson has obtained 51 votes. Mrs. Pandit, four. Mr. Pearson, having obtained the necessary majority, I have the honor to declare him elected president of the seventh session of the General Assembly. Mr. Padilla Nervo vient de déclarer que c'était Mr. Lester Pearson, ministre des Affaires extérieures du Canada, qui a été choisi président de la septième session régulière de l'Assemblée générale par 51 voix, avec quatre voix pour Mme Pandit de l'Inde. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of the first meeting, the first plenary meeting of the seventh session of the United Nations General Assembly. This has been an exciting meeting, exciting perhaps less for what it has done, since it was known in advance, or expected in advance, that Mr. Pearson of Canada would be elected president of this session. But exciting because, with it, the General Assembly, and indeed the United Nations in general, have moved in to their new home. And this new home is a magnificent one, a beautiful one. And we say to our listeners in New York City, who are with us for this broadcast, that the meetings of the General Assembly are open to you, and we hope that you will take advantage of the opportunity to come to observe the work of the General Assembly and to visit this very beautiful great hall. Now, we ask our listeners in New York City to stand by with us for just a few moments, because in two minutes from now, we shall end our broadcast to Europe, and we should like, in that interval, to explain to listeners in Europe the procedure of this meeting and what will go on after that. And we ask, incidentally, our English-speaking listeners throughout Europe to stand by with us for a moment as we explain these matters to our French-language listeners. Mesdames, Mesdemoiselles, Messieurs, nous sommes arrivés enfin à la clôture de la première séance plénière, la séance inaugurale de cette session, la septième session régulière de l'Assemblée Générale. Au cours de cette séance, comme vous le savez déjà, l'Assemblée Générale a choisi comme président permanent de la session M. Lester Pearson, ministre des Affaires extérieures du Canada. Et voilà que la séance inaugurale est terminée. Et voilà que notre émission se termine aussi. Nous vous disons à demain. Until tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen of our European audience. And now, for listeners of New York, this is United Nations Radio Broadcasting from the Great Hall of the General Assembly. You've heard the proceedings this morning, containing, as they did, the addresses by the Honourable Vincent Impeletere, the Mayor of New York, by the Honourable Warren Austin, who spoke as Chairman of the Headquarters Advisory Committee. You heard the address by Mr. Trigver Lee, the Secretary General of the United Nations, and finally, the address by Dr. Padilla Nervo, the retiring President of the Assembly. We say retiring because, according to United Nations tradition, each succeeding Assembly is opened by the President of the previous session, acting as temporary President. Because it's obviously only during the first meeting of the Assembly that that body can choose its own President. That it has done this morning, as you know, by electing Mr. Lester B. Pearson, who is the Minister for External Affairs of Canada. Mr. Pearson received 51 votes out of a total of 55 ballots. 60 votes were cast, but five of them were abstentions. It was Mrs. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, head of the delegation of India, who received the four other votes. And so this meeting was closed by Dr. Padilla Nervo, and today was the last time, certainly for this session, that he will occupy the Presidential Rostrum. As a matter of fact, at this point, Dr. Padilla Nervo has come down from the high dais of the President. He is standing at a lower level alongside the Speaker's Tribune, and he is being greeted by numerous delegates as they file out of this vast hall. They are coming up to greet him, remembering the work which he did during the last session of the Assembly meeting in Paris. And the omnipresent photographers are back on the recording of these scenes once again for their newspapers and periodicals. Since you have heard all the speeches this morning in their English versions or directly by the Speaker, if the Speaker spoke in English, at this point, we would like to give you a picture of what the President of the Assembly sees as he looks forward. He is on the highest level of seats on the parterre or floor of this great room. And he looks down upon a slightly lower level at which you find the Speaker's Lecture. It's interesting to note that both the Speaker's Lecture and the three places at the President's dais are provided with automatic Speaker's Desks. By pressing a button, the Speaker may have his desk automatically rise to a level which makes it easier for him to read depending upon his stature or lowered if he is a short man. and he wants to have the normal distance between his documents and himself. And after his opening remarks in English when Dr. Padilla Neville spoke, he then turned to Spanish to pronounce his more formal speech. pronounced in the French sense, we find we're, I beg your pardon, interpreting literally or translating literally here. You may have noticed that Dr. Padilla Neville said very convenient. That's because he was pressing this button with obvious satisfaction as his desk rose to a point nearer to his eyes. Well, when he looks forward above the Speaker's desk, he then sees four segments of this great hall which are occupied by the Speaker's Desks. To us, they present a symphony in blonde wood, green leather tops of the delegates' tables, beige for the upholstery of the principal delegates' chairs, and blue leather upholstery for the chairs which are for the alternate delegates of each of the 60 delegations. At this point, we're still speaking to you, of course, from our radio booth, we see perhaps two dozen photographers who are now taking pictures of the new President of the Assembly, Mr. Pearson of Canada, receiving the gavel from the retiring President, Dr. Luis Padilla Neville. These delegates, these photographers are standing in a semicircle in front of the new and the retiring Presidents of the Assembly, and in order to be able to focus their cameras over each other's heads. Some are standing on tiptoes, some are crouching, and there's this constant flashing of batteries of flashlights. That is what the President of the Assembly, both Presidents, the old and the new, are seeing now. But if they were to look beyond this great multitude of photographers, they would see in the first row of delegates' benches an array, as indeed throughout the Assembly, of great statesmen. The position of the delegations in this great hall is determined by lot before the Assembly begins. And as we told you this year, it has fallen to the lot of the Soviet Union to occupy the very first position in the hall. Now, each one of these tables of delegates has place for ten delegates. Five are the permanent delegates of each delegation. Their five alternates are behind them, so that each table is shared by two delegations. Well, following the alphabetical list of the United Nations members, if the Soviet Union occupies the first half of the first table, it's followed by the delegation of the United Kingdom, then across an aisle by that of the United States. And finally, that table is shared by Uruguay. Because the two central sections, or segments of this, great portion of the hall occupied by delegates' benches, extend farther forward than the two outside planking sections. And so the president of the assembly will look forward, and on his right in the first row, he will see Mr. Andrei Vyshinsky, as indeed we have seen him this morning from our radio booth here. And sitting next to Mr. Vyshinsky was Mr. Andrei Gromyko, another very familiar figure in United Nations circles, because, as you know, Mr. Gromyko was, for some years, the permanent delegate of the Soviet Union to the United Nations. And then we noticed also Mr. Valerian Zorin, who was the new permanent delegate of the Soviet Union to the UN, and Mr. Yakov Malik. And then the other half of that first bench was occupied by the delegation of the United Kingdom. In a short time from now, we understand the foreign minister of the United Kingdom, Mr. Anthony Eden, will come to the General Assembly, but at the present time, the position as chief of the United Kingdom delegation is being temporarily occupied by Mr. Selwyn Lloyd, who is minister of state. As a matter of fact, one of the photographs, which the cameraman took somewhat earlier in this day, was one of Mr. Selwyn Lloyd, who had come over to Mr. Vyshynski's seat to greet him. And the two statesmen stood and shook hands as the photographers took their photograph. Well, then we skip an aisle, and with the president of the Assembly, we will see the delegation of the United States. Just a few minutes ago, before that delegation left the hall, we saw sitting at the aisle seat the chief of the American delegation, Secretary of State, Dean Acheson. Next to him was Mr. Warren Austin, who was America's permanent delegate to the United Nations, and after that, we noticed Mrs. Franklin Roosevelt, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, who has, since the outset, been a member of United Nations delegations to the Assembly, and who, of course, has been a permanent member of the United Nations Human Rights Commission. We saw also Dr. Philip Jessup and the ambassador, Benjamin Cohen, and the other members of the United States delegation, and finally, that first row was completed with the delegation of Uruguay, among which we noticed Dr. Fabregat, who was another familiar figure who has been in United Nations circles for so many years. During the roll call, which drew to the ballot box in front of the Assembly Hall, the chiefs of each delegation, we gave you some of the names of delegates as we saw them come down the central or the side aisles to place their ballots in the ballot box. Of course, many of these delegates present for the General Assembly have been representing their countries here at United Nations, either in New York or in Lake Success or at Lushing Meadow or in Paris or even in earlier times in London or at Hunter College, as you heard Mr. Trigverly mention during his saga of the travels of the United Nations. And so we, even from the distance of our radio booths and from the slightly lesser distance of booths in the committee rooms, learn to recognize them. But each year, of course, with changes of governments and changes of political parties in other countries, there are many new delegates whose faces we learn only after some portion of the Assembly time has gone by. And so in our descriptions of the proceedings of the General Assembly, we shall always attempt to give you the color picture that we see from our radio booth and to identify all of the speakers as they come before the Assembly or before its committee. This afternoon, United Nations Radio, in cooperation with New York's municipal broadcasting station WNYC, will bring you a broadcast of the proceedings once again in this great, brilliant, and magnificent new hall of the Assembly here in New York. And we can tell you now that since the President of the Assembly, the permanent President, has been chosen, what will happen this afternoon is this. The Assembly is a group of some 600 delegates. There are 10 delegates from each of the 60 nations. And practically, all of the 60 countries have sent a full complement of delegates to the Assembly session. One or two, perhaps, will be represented by a lesser number than 10. But at any rate, approximately 600 will be the number of delegates concerned with the work of this United Nations, not to speak of their numerous councillors and advisers and members of their own secretariat. And consequently, it's almost impossible for an assemblage as large as that to come to grips with the details of all the crucial problems of the world which will be before this Assembly. There are 72 items figuring on the provisional agenda of the Assembly. And so the Assembly, in order to accomplish its work most expeditiously, divides itself up into committees. There are normally six committees and sometimes a seventh committee is chosen in order to help the political committee of the Assembly do its work more quickly. Well, this afternoon, the first job of the Assembly under its new president will be to hear, of course, the statement which the new president is probably at this very point thinking about giving to the Assembly. And after that, there will be the constitution of the main committees. The president of the Assembly will say, I declare this plenary session closed and we now declare ourselves the political committee of the Assembly and our first business there is to elect the presidents and officers of that political committee. When that's been done, he will change from the first committee of the Assembly into the second committee which is economic and financial. and so, for perhaps a half an hour this afternoon, there will be elections. The elections of the officials of the various committees through which the Assembly does its work. Then there will be an election of vice presidents. There are seven of them. Then there will be the adoption of the agenda. And so, it's likely that during this afternoon's broadcast which begins at 30 seconds past three over the facilities of New York's municipal broadcasting station, we shall be talking to you at great length during the time that the delegates are busy depositing their ballots in the ballot box. And so, in order not to steal our own thunder for this afternoon and tell you now all the things that we shall want to tell you this afternoon, we believe that it would be advisable for us to bring our remarks from this radio booth in the Great Hall of the Assembly to a conclusion in fairly rapid order. And so, we want to remind you that you've been listening to a broadcast of United Nations Radio from United Nations World Headquarters in New York. We invite you to join with us again for this afternoon's broadcast which, by the way, will be beamed only to listeners in the United States because by the time this afternoon's meeting will have opened, it will be evening, by the time it closes, it will be night across the Atlantic and consequently, we shall not broadcast either to Europe or to South Africa during the second session of the day. And so, we shall not be interrupting as we did earlier with our remarks entrenched to our French-language listeners. There, ladies and gentlemen, is the picture of what has transpired this morning. The opening of this brilliant hall, the speeches of welcome, the speeches of dedication, the very elevated thoughts of Dr. Louis Padilla-Nervo, the president of the last General Assembly and the temporary president of this session of the General Assembly. And the choice as permanent president of this session of Mr. Lester B. Pearson, the foreign minister of Canada. We've given you the color, we've given you the substance, and now there remains for us to say good morning and to invite you to join with us again in three hours and three minutes. This is United Nations Radio, broadcasting from UN World Headquarters in New York. We return you now to the studios of New York's municipal broadcasting station, WNYC. From United Nations, New York, your city station has brought you a direct broadcast of today's proceedings of the United Nations General Assembly. This exclusive coverage is in line with WNYC's policy of furnishing its listeners with unbiased news of the UN as it happens. We are interested in your reaction to these broadcasts. Mail your comments to WNYC, New York 7, New York. This is WNYC, the voice of New York City. Now we join the WNYC FM audience to bring you our regularly scheduled programs. Melondesi from USA to BISCsmC. Come the Additionalけて toone