Well, it's intermission time now, time for a little informal discussion about some of the thousand and one things pertaining to productions of lies and recorded opera. Incidentally, if our listeners have any questions they'd like us to put to our guests during the summer, just send them in. Today we have with us as guests Leopold Saxa, who was stage director of the Love Tales of Hoffman at the New York City Center Opera. We had hoped to have with us, too, Thelma Votipka, the beloved Metropolitan Opera singer, but unfortunately she phoned just a few minutes ago saying that she was ill. We're awfully sorry and hope she'll be okay soon and may be back with us next week. We have two here today in the studios, Shirley Blois, soprano, who incidentally studied operatic roles with Mr. Saxa at Juilliard, and Donald Pringle, baritone, both young Canadian singers who kindly offered to help us out on these panel discussions on a more or less permanent basis throughout the summer. Of course, we in radio, particularly, are inclined to emphasize only the musical aspects of opera, to be interested only in what we hear, which I think is a very bad habit. Don't you, Mr. Saxa? I agree fully with you. As long as opera is considered to be a branch of the theatrical art, we must not forget that the word proper theater means something to look at, something visual, and not only something to be listened to. In the last years, we had repeatedly wonderful, excellent performances of famous operas in concert form. As wonderful as those performances are, in a certain way, it doesn't help the sake of operatic development, because people who are inclined to listen only to music prefer rather to go to these performances or to listen to radio diffusion of such performances than to see the opera proper in the theater. One must not forget that the composer, when he wrote the work, had the intention to see it perform in the theater and not to hear it in a concert hall. Exactly. Well, I think during the summer on these panel discussions, it's going to be our intention to discuss some of these other aspects of opera other than the musical recorded side of it. Well, there are so many other things we can talk about, the ballet, for example, and the costumes, the wig-making, the impresarios working with the different opera companies, the orchestras and so on. And there's another aspect, too, I think, the financial or business aspect, the engaging of the orchestra, what kind of an orchestra, how big, the directing of the stagehands. In fact, all that goes on backstage in a technical matter, I think Mr. Saxa can tell us quite a lot about that. Yes, this brings us back into your field, Mr. Saxa, and it might be interesting to illustrate what goes on in the staging of an operatic show by telling us of the workings of your production of Tales of Hoffman, which we're doing this afternoon. Well, generally spoken, I think that the first task of a stage director is to be in complete understanding with the musical director. Both things, music and staging, have to be like one unit. Otherwise, you will never see a good production. So there's very much to be done before you go on the stage. And the preparation of the artists for their roles is one of the most important things. Well, you work in that preparation with the musical director, too? Absolutely. Absolutely. You work first with the musical conductor and then with the singers later, isn't it? Absolutely. There should never be any contradiction between the musical director and the stage director. Both have to understand them completely, and there should be lots of preparation before they start to work with the artists in order not to confuse them. Well, what about the preparation of the artists themselves, aside from their vocal training and their memory training of the opera? Do you give them any psychological founding, let us say, in the characters of the opera? Because I think Tales of Hoffman is pretty much a psychological drama. It's become very popular in the recent years in Hollywood and on the screen. Wouldn't you say so, Mr. Saxon? By all means, especially in opera like Tales of Hoffman, where the main artist, the name role, happens to be not just an operatic lover, but he has to perform the role of a wonderful genius, genius, a man gifted in every way, a man who was a poet as well, as a composer, a musician as well, as a theatrical director, a scientist, a legal mind of highest quality, and on the other hand, a very unhappy man. It's absolutely necessary to make the artist acquainted with his kind of character, because it's rather unusual for an operatic artist to perform such a role. But Hoffman wasn't an actual fictional character, was he? I mean, he was a real man. By no means, he was not a real man, but we, as operatic artists, we should know that he wrote quite a number of operas, and operas which are, I wouldn't say excellent, but at least very good operas, romantic operas. One of his best operas was his Undine, after a tale by Fouquet, and then another one, the Merry Musicians. Isn't this one that you did? I did it. I found it in the library of the Conservatoire in Paris, and I was allowed to copy the work, and we performed it in Hamburg. Incidentally, in Hamburg, didn't you stage The Tales of Hoffman? Wasn't that your...? Of course. I staged it in Hamburg, but before I had staged it in Halle and in Münster, and as a matter of fact, it was the first work I staged at all in my operatic career. On the other hand, I sang the four roles, the Lindorf, Coppelius, Der Petruttum, Miracle, I don't know how often. Yes, and then when you sang the four roles, you speak of singing the four roles, you sang them all in the one opera. Sure. Because quite often that's the case, isn't it, that one person takes the four parts. Yes, it should be, because those four roles are not four different roles, but the personification of the evil principle. And you find it in the original score that Offenbach wrote those roles that have to be performed by the same singer. And the girl by the same soprano, too. He asked for that, but this is a very difficult task, and it happened only rarely that you could find a singer who was able to do it. What kind of a soprano would you say, Mr. Saxon, who would handle three roles? I think it's only possible for a lyric soprano who has the possibility of excellent coloratura, and with wonderful top notes, who has an easy high F, and on the other hand, who has the dramatic power to perform the Giulietta in the Venice Act, and who has the sincerity to think the role of Antonia in the last act. Yes, the sort of singer that Mozart wanted for the Queen of the Night, a dramatic soprano with coloratura, which is fantastic. You are partly right, if I may say so, because the role of the Queen of the Night is somehow more in one line. It's a dramatic coloratura, but the aspect of those four roles have more facets, are more different. Yes, in the recording we're doing today, the soprano part in each act is taken by a different singer. Oh, this is usually done. So you have an interesting time comparing those voices. I think that every Tales of Hoffman I've heard on the radio in this country has had all roles done by each different person, I think, a different character. Yeah, even in France, in the opera comique, they do it very often with, or mostly, with different singers. And even the roles of the four baritons are not always in the same hands. Even in the city center, we used to give the role of Tappatutto to another bariton than the other roles, because the aria, the so-called mirror aria, which, by the way, was discovered very, very late. It was not in the first performances. Oh, yeah. No, no, no. This aria is very often sung by an excellent voice, and the one who has the characterization for the first and for the other acts has not always the power of us, which should go with this mirror aria in the Venice Act. Well, now we're pretty well set on the singing aspect of the initial problems of staging. Now, how about, what goes from there? What the stage director takes over after the singers have been trained, and what does he do? What, he works out the business in the... Well, I hate this word business. Please forgive me for saying so. This question is very difficult to answer. As a matter of fact, I think the singers should work from the beginning, as well with the stage director as they do with the coach and with the musical director. In other words... To give them the whole training, and so that the whole thing becomes real and artistic. But, you see, one thing I can say about the staging of Tales of Fuffman, I try very hard to give to the Olympia Act, to the first one, the atmosphere of a very gay comedy, to the second act, the idea of a very passionate love drama, and to the Antonia Act, the idea of the tragedy of death. And so, if we can achieve those three different moods, then we do already something for the Tales of Fuffman. On the other hand, the first time in the city center, I achieved one aim, what I always had, but I never had the possibilities to do it. Every tale, so to say, we call the opera the Tales of Fuffman. Every tale begins again in the tavern of Luther, and we see again there Hoffman with his fellow students and the evil principal in the person of Lindolf. Oh, now, that's... Oh, always, always. Quite of a sudden, Hoffman walks from this tavern into the picture of the act, and so does Lindolf, who quite of a sudden takes off his cape and appears in another mask as another individual. Is that done by using the same person as Lindolf and then as the evil principal? Well, even if we don't use the same person for Dappertutto, the singer of Tappertutto wears the same wig first and the same cape, so he appears first as Lindolf. Absolutely as Lindolf. Mm-hmm. I see. That's very clever staging. Well, I think all this opera needs is a psychiatrist. Kind of. If Alec Guinness is as good a singer, he's an actor. I should recommend him. Well, no, I take a little exception to that. I don't know whether the part that Alec Guinness plays is a psychiatrist at all, but that's somewhat away from the discussion, I suppose. Tell me, Mr. Saxa, was the performance of the opera that you did at the city center in English? No, it was in French, in the original language. And as long as our excellent conductor, Morel, will conduct the opera, and I hope he never will stop to do so, the performances will be in French, because he insists of having the opera in the original language. But... If we could have an English translation, together with the French one, us... Well, this brings us naturally to another point, which I intended to go into thoroughly at a later meeting of this group. But for now, it seems to me that at least we are coming of age when we can get opera in English. I was reading through the libretto of Parsifal this last Easter while hearing it at the Met, and frankly, I would have enjoyed it a lot more if those English words would have been sung. They are very interesting and stand up very well. By not knowing the language, it seems to me, we're cut off from one big chunk of appreciation and understanding of what goes on. You're absolutely right. And I tried very hard since I had the good luck to become a citizen of the United States to fight for getting every opera in English. This is, to me, the only possibility to develop opera at all. It will be... It will encourage young American composers to really compose new works. On the other hand, our American singers have the problem to learn two, three, four different languages which they really don't know. All they learn is to speak them like a parrot learns to speak certain words. And from the viewpoint of the audience, the audience is there and is just guessing and mostly guessing the wrong way. I think that tends to kill interest in opera. I really think so. And the city center production, for example, of the Love for Three Oranges, which was done this year in English, the English translation is just delightful. And the Marriage of Figaro also is wonderful in English. Yes, and the Magic Fruit. But, Mr. Sark, I see what you mean, but do you think operas like Traviata and Rigoletto translate well? Do you think they're good in English? What matters is to have a good translation. Yes, of course. And thank God we have with us on our staff, Thomas Martin, and he and Mrs. Martin do really wonderful translations. Yes, I must say they're very similar. And if I may mention it, please don't get me wrong, I don't want to brag. I did some translations myself. I did a common translation. Yes, I saw your translation. The common was given almost everywhere in the United States it was given in Canada. And I translated Ariadna of Naxos by Richard Strauss into English. And the audience just loved it. Well, you did this. When I saw your production of The Tales of Hoffman at Hunter College, the translation was by you, wasn't it? That's right. Yes. That's right. So that was in English. Yes. Well, I don't want to disagree with you, Mr. Saxer, because really I'm on your side. But I just want to know what you would do with an opera, let us say, such as Traviata or Rigoletto, to make it sound, well, let us say sensible in English, because, you know, in Italian libretti, quite often one phrase is repeated over and over again, which in such a beautiful language as Italian seems to go over okay. Oh, I... Let's say, what would you do now with the farewell of the Duke to Gilda in Rigoletto when he sings that deal, deal, deal, deal? Well, you see, you mentioned a problem which has to be overcome, and I don't doubt that good translators will make it possible to have a good, not a translation, not a literal translation, but an adaptation, what... Adaptation could even be better than the original. Because I, quite frankly, can tell you that many of the first operas of Verdi from the point of libretto are not very strong works. They are partly very childish. Now, I think that's not the point to say I prefer not to understand it because it's childish, but I prefer to understand something and to make it less childish, and it's possible to do so. And I still say it's ridiculous to ask somebody to listen to an opera without understanding one word. And as long as you have Italian singers, all right, you can be at least sure that they won't make mistakes. But if you go to an opera sung by, let's not say American singers, but by singers who are not Italian and who sing in Italian, then please take your score with you and take a pencil with you and then mark the mistakes, the real mistakes which are made. Except speaking... You will find at least 20. Speaking from experience, though, if they work them with you, they'll have every word. No, it's too bad for them. But, you know, now in Italy, they certainly make no bones about translating English or German or anything else into Italy. I was there and heard Britain's opera in English translated into Italian. Absolutely. And did you, when you were there last summer, Don? We heard an Italian opera in Italian. Yes. They do Wagner in Italian. I heard Master's English conducted by Toscanini and the scholar in Italian. Yes, and there's a recording of a lot of Lehmann doing, I think, La Boheme, isn't there, in German. Oh, yes, sure. In other words, in Europe, the tendency is to translate, and rightly so, I think, into the language of the country. Well, I think the way they got off on the wrong foot here, the wrong foot from Mr. Saxe's point of view anyway, is that in the early days they had to rely on great European singers before they had such a wealth of native singers here. For instance, the Caruso's, the Scotties, and people like that, I suppose, could not take the time to learn an English translation, wouldn't bother about it. Yes, but now Erna Berger and her abduction from the Seragio performance at Town Hall, which, although in concert, Mr. Saxe, I still found tremendously enjoyable in that small, limited atmosphere. But now, she had, I noticed, a small little sheet of paper on which were written the words in English, and managed them absolutely perfectly. There was no question, she just did a magnificent job. For sure. And that's the way it should be done, I think. Well, now, I think that our time is just about up. I want to thank you all for coming here. Mr. Leopold Saxe, who we asked today primarily because he had staged The Love Tales of Hoffman at the New York City Center Opera in French and at the Hunter College, I understand, in English. Also, our guests, Shirley Blois and Don Pringle, Canadian singers, who will be back with us again next week. Tell me, of course, a big presser a bigGBB 235 for picomarus. I want to thank you all for coming. I'm late for tw Holz, I have toください. All right, I'm 30 seconds too much to ask. I might say you're laying on a table attribute it in my cabinet, But I have to keep you in my cabinet. And then, he's in your cabinet, even though, trying too much to take away the floor in your cabinet seats and just bring me in a table.
