How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? We're talking to you from 23rd Street, Madison Square, New York, the occasion being the 30th anniversary of the signing of the armstice, the 25th anniversary of the lighting of the eternal light. At the moment, Judge Maurice Simmons, the chairman of the mayor's committee for the celebration of this anniversary, is addressing the large assemblage here in Madison Square. Judge Simmons. Of more than a million that are listening to these ceremonies, it is my privilege to present the presiding officer at this function, the chairman of the mayor's committee, one of the outstanding civic leaders of our community, an unselfish and devoted public official, a war veteran, beloved of all war veterans, our own comrade, the president of the city council, and at this time, the acting mayor of the city of New York, the honorable Vincent R. Impelitari. Judge Simmons. Reverend clergy. General Woodruff. For president Hugo Rogers. Judge Paul P. Rayo. Mr. Wanamaker. Distinguished guests. Comrades. Ladies and gentlemen. We are gathered here today at this very historic shrine to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the signing of the armistice of the First World War. And it is with feelings of patriotic pride and earnest gratitude that as acting mayor and the spokesman for the city of New York, I welcome you and join with you in paying very humble respects to all those who by their supreme personal sacrifice gave eternal life to the ideals of democracy. This day in 1918 marked the final victory in what up to that time was the most devastating conflict in the history of the world. Through the years, Armistice Day has become a symbol of hope for permanent peace and a faith in the brotherhood of man. Armistice Day, VE Day, VJ Day, all are symbols of great victories by the forces of humanity over the forces of evil. But believe me, all at the same time are symbols of hope for a far greater victory, the victory of human decency over the dreadful and futile methods of war. let us embrace with an eager devotion the opportunity to carry this country proudly forward along the pathway of international peace and harmony. I assure you that the city of New York is foursquare behind the efforts of the United Nations to work out the foundation for a lasting peace. And I am certain that we can depend upon all veteran and patriotic organizations who have taken part in this ceremony today to lend us their full and wholehearted support. In a few moments, we will hear addresses by New York County Legion Commander Herbert P. Worth and Major General Roscoe B. Woodruff, Deputy Commander, First Army of the United States Army. Meanwhile, may I ask you to pause for two minutes of silence in memory of our departed comrades. Here we come . . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Have compassion on all whom war has bereaved. Comfort them in their loneliness and bring them to a further knowledge of thy love. We ask thy blessing upon our brethren who are sick in body or in mind. Fill their hearts with courage and confidence and give them inner peace. And finally, oh Father, help us to be true lovers of our country. An honor to these United States of America that our nation may be a source of inspiration to all the nations of the world. As we recall past deeds of war, may we resolve to work steadfastly for the day when war shall be no more. And may the issues of these times be peace on earth, good will to men, and the furtherance of thy kingdom of love. All glory be to thee, oh Father Almighty, world without end. Amen. The Star Spangled Banner will be sung by Walter Castle, baritone, formerly of the Metropolitan Opera Company. Mr. Waller Castle. Mr. Waller Castle. Oh God. Breathe. Hey. Breathe. Oh, say can you see By the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Be proof through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? First of all, may I, in your behalf, thank Mr. Cassel for one of the finest renditions of the Star Spangled Banner that I have ever heard. We are very privileged today to have in our distinguished audience and on this platform, The New York County Commander of the American Legion, Dr. Herbert P. Worth, who will now address you. Dr. Worth. Reverend clergy, General Woodruff, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow American veterans all, We gather here today for the purpose of commemorating the armistice which concluded the First World War, and affirmantly offering heartfelt prayers of thanks for the end of the European phase of the Second World War, Still later, the complete surrender of Japan, signifying the end of the war in the Pacific. This dreadful conflict had raged since September 1, 1939, and during the ensuing five years, millions of humans had been killed. Most of Western Europe prostrate under the brutal oath of a ruthless tyranny, heretofore believed invincible, and whose insufferable arrogance knew no bounds. Their economic as well as political life was disrupted. Great industries were destroyed. Individuals had lost their identity as such, Their dignity and personality being collectivized into a faceless and impersonal machine, mobilized almost completely, each according to his or her contribution to the cause, for total war, as it was then known. Nor had America escaped unscathed. In the Pacific, by VJ Day, Upward of 300,000 members of the armed forces had perished in battle or died in the service. Another nearly quarter million had been wounded, many of these destined to themselves die as a direct cause of battle. The nation itself had contributed from its roaring blast furnaces, its mechanized industry, and its almost limitless financial resources, a seemingly endless stream of the war materials needed to furnish the tanks, the guns, the planes, the ships, and other equipment, desperately needed for the successful prosecution of this Herculean effort. We were once again the nation which had twice in a generation turned the tide of battle from disaster on so many fronts, for our valiant but greatly weakened allies into glorious victory. We have performed once again the miracle of transition from a non-military and peace-loving nation to a complete war economy of incredibly great military strength to excite the admiration and respect of the entire world, friend as well as enemy. In our gratitude, however, let us recount the fierce price that has been exacted to achieve complete victory over implacable foes. War's wasted destruction is incalculable. The cost in dollars was near 300 billion, but immeasurably greater and certainly more tragic as the loss of human life entailed, the inexorable price that must be paid to satisfy the insatiable appetite of the war god, whose greedy jaws of death seemingly know no satiety. In deep humility and profound reverence, we bow our head in memory and respect for our war heroes and heroines who gave their all in the supreme sacrifice in defending their beloved country and ensuring victory for our allies. Our debt to them is limitless. An economy can be repaired, but blood spilled can never be regenerated. But what of the future? Have we finally at inconceivable cost to victor and vanquish alike arrived at that goal so desperately desired by all mankind, eternal peace on earth? Or if that is expecting too much, at least a respite, a transitory period of human happiness, sure cease from war? If so, the price, high though it has been, might be worth the gain. You know the answer as well as I. Hardly had the guns ceased firing, hardly had our heroic death been decently interred as a reminder of war's grim holocaust, then we are warned that yet a third world war is, if not imminent, at least inevitable. If the profits of doom be right, though their infallibility is by no means certain, we had better examine this thesis critically. We must face the issue squarely, honestly, and unflinchingly. Conceding the validity of their conclusions, shall we idle aimlessly, futilely, drifting down the road to impending disaster? When the dark clouds of war gathered ominously over Europe and Asia, and the storm broke in 1939, America was totally unprepared. Yet even then, the American people could not entirely believe that war might come to us, that American men would be called to fight once more in defense of their nation. Then came Pearl Harbor. Our soil had been desecrated by enemy treachery. America was at war. Fortunately, a beginning had been made by the enactment in 1940 of the Selective Service Act, with its training program that provided about one million men, partially or wholly trained before the infamous assault by the Japanese upon Pearl Harbor. From that time on, we were able to land forces in conquered territory in the southwest Pacific, Iceland, and North Africa, as well as in England. Of course, the American Legion heartily endorsed and supported the Selective Service Act in 1940. Had there been in fact such a selective service system after the First World War, we of the Legion are firmly convinced that the Second World War might never have started. The American Legion has consistently advocated the principle of universal military training. Indeed, it is axiomatic that a well-prepared nation is the only bulwark against war-provoking acts of an aggressor nation. Again and again, during the approximately quarter century following World War I, the Legion repeated its pleas to Congress for enactment of such legislation. They fell on deaf ears. Those were the years when the pacifists were in the ascendancy. It was popular to pin labels of such organizations as ours, such as militaristic. Yet the same propaganda is again being engendered, with no secure peace in the world today by these same self-style idealists, proclaiming the same program which served so successfully during past years to defeat American preparedness. True, there were treaties which outlawed war, treaties that sank battleships, neutrality and embargo acts that bound our hands and shackled our determination to build even the semblance of an adequate defense. While we scuttled battleships, rival powers sank blueprints, at the same time mocking the ideals of freedom and of everything America held dear. We were to stay out of war, not in the manly fashion of keeping ourselves too strong to be attacked, but by shutting our eyes and ears, by making pious appeals to the better nature of tyrannical dictators who respect no ideal but force. That policy failed as indeed it must. And when war was upon us, we found more than 12 million men had to be trained for battle on diversified fronts 12,000 miles apart. Because of the resurgence of pacifism, once again we were sending men into battle with less than 13 weeks of training. The growing casualty list will once again a monument to our folly. Unless and until the United Nations can assure and secure world peace, our national safety is in jeopardy. Our existence as an independent nation grievously menaced, threatened with disaster. If our sacred dead, for whom we are met this day in hell of memory, who have answered the final call by their supreme sacrifice in defense of their country, who but could they return to us and plead that once again, untold millions of equally splendid youths, exemplifying all that is fine and noble in American manhood be spared their agony, their tragedy, I am sure you would hear them say as one that in order to ensure our security, we should maintain a strong Navy second to none. That we should build a formidable air power to assure an adequate reserve air transport system needed for any emergency. That adequate preparedness demands that a system of universal military training be inaugurated without further delay. That a unified command of our armed forces with the Army, Navy and Air Force on an equal level is essential to adequate preparedness. That scientific research in nuclear energy and in other scientific and technical fields be continued and expanded in order to contribute to the best interest of the nation in peace as well as in war. That stockpiles of strategic material difficult to procurement during emergencies be established and adequately maintained. That our nation maintain necessary bases consistent with our policy of national defense. And that finally, they say, with an all-abiding faith in the God of the universe who guides and protects us all, if we but look to him for help, then they say America must go forward and happiness prevail among men of goodwill. At least a stock will have been made, nay, great progress will have been achieved toward the dream of peace among men. Can we do aught but give careful consideration to their silent appeal that has just been made so eloquently? Can we do less to ensure their own eternal rest and peace? Our honored dead demand as much from us, and we shall be less than grateful if we fail to heed their plea. Thank you very much, Commander Worth. We will now have a selection by the Fire Department Band. We are on our way from here. We will finish theою. The actuallycenity is where we want to try to resolve when weạnWork's propriety we want to be most Classifiable and we are peaceably pressed into the creator houses since it is longer ה. We will combine our creed by the carta accidentally but for several 이렇게 of the queen. On its specifications... There is no charge of that American star additions to the city. So we send our next eagle and the council to make this to our fed EK. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Addressed to the Board of Estates, gentlemen, on November 1, 1923, Rodman Wanamaker, distinguished citizen and merchant of our city, presented to the city of New York the eternal life. Located in Madison Square Park at 24th Street and 5th Avenue, as a war memorial to commemorate the supreme sacrifice made by those who died on the battlefields during World War I. The eternal life is the only citywide war memorial that we have of both world wars, and it seems fitting on the occasion of the 25th anniversary, November 11, 1948, of this patriotic citizen's gift to the people of the city of New York, that a minute should be made in the records of the Board of Estates. During World War I, Rodman Wanamaker was Honorary Deputy Police Commissioner and also organized and served as the first chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the reception of distinguished guests. In recognition of his loyal, faithful, and generous service to the people of the city of New York, I recommend that the Mayor be authorized to present, on behalf of the city, a posthumous medal to the family of the late Rodman Wanamaker with appropriate resolution. Resolution, very truly yours, William O'Dwyer Mayor. This proposal received the unanimous approval of the Board of Estates. Thereafter, the following medals and citations were prepared by His Honor, Mayor O'Dwyer. This citation reads as follows. Know all men by these presents, that I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Honorable Rodman Wanamaker, 1863-1928, whose high sense of civic beauty and patriotic gift of the World War Memorial, the Eternal Life, dedicated on November 11, 1923, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York, signed William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. The medal, the front, that is, the face of the medal, reads as follows. Rodman W. W. Wanamaker, Rodman Wanamaker, the City of New York, 1948. The back of the medal bears the following inscription, awarded in appreciation of his patriotic gift, the World War Memorial, November 11, 1923, the Eternal Night. May I ask Legionnaire John Rodman Wanamaker, the great-grandson of Rodman Wanamaker, to come forward. Mr. Wanamaker, the Acting Mayor of the City of New York, and in behalf of all the people of our great city, may I ask you, on behalf of the family of your late great-grandfather, and grandfather, Rodman Wanamaker, to please accept this token of the affection of the people of the City of New York for Rodman Wanamaker, and at the same time, may I ask you to accept this very beautiful medal, which was struck off especially for presentation to you on behalf of your family. The name Wanamaker is so closely associated with the Eternal Light because it was Rodman Wanamaker of that generation that donated the Eternal Light to the City of New York, and it has been burning and has been the focal point of the observation of reverence to the victory dead here in New York City ever since that great occasion. And now the young, very interesting-looking Rodman Wanamaker of this generation is boyishly holding up the citation which he has just received from Acting Mayor Impelet Terry. And of course, the photographers are correlating the facts in the shape of pictures, and in time to come, it will be very interesting, of course, to refer back to these pictures, as we so often do when we try to recapture the scene as it happened at the time. And these photographs are so important in that particular matter. Mr. Impelet Terry is quite busy now getting Mr. Wanamaker regulated. Looks as though Mr. Wanamaker is going to speak. Thank you, Acting Mayor Impelet Terry. It is with mixed emotions that I gratefully accept this Memorial Medal and scroll. Naturally, there is a feeling of ancestral pride. And I am glad that my grandfather, 30 years ago, was a member of the Mayor's Committee to welcome the Homecoming troops. And I am glad, too, that he chose this eternal light five years later, symbol of enduring peace, in honor of our victorious troops, and in commemoration of those who made the supreme sacrifice for the triumph of the free peoples of the world. I am proud in the knowledge that he, in his day, was not merely a verbal proponent of peace, but that he left to succeeding generations this beautiful and symbolic Memorial to direct our way, light our course to the port of peace. But much stronger than any ancestral pride is the deep feeling of personal humility and responsibility, which the acceptance of this honor engenders. In 1918, it was much easier to talk of peace than it is today. In that year, we had just finished the world conflict, strongly determined that it should be the last one. Twenty-five years later, however, world conditions were such that we again joined forces with other democratic nations to more securely establish the rights of man, then under attack by aggressive dictators. In 1948, as we look about us, we find the transgression of human rights still rampant in many countries. This, in spite of the tremendous sacrifice of manpower and materiel in World War II. That freedom and liberty of man must be maintained is indisputable. But we must seek means other than war to preserve these rights. We must use peaceful approaches to solve the problem. We cannot continue on the theory that our young men and women are expendable. Instead, we must promote better understanding between the peoples of the world. We must overcome intolerance. We must cast discrimination aside. We must try to understand the other man's point of view. Give it careful consideration. Search for the grains of truth in what may seem biased reports, instead of flatly rejecting the whole statement. When Sir Alfred Zimmerman, expert in international affairs, was asked, what in your opinion is the greatest obstacle between us and the building of enduring world peace? He is said to have promptly replied, the small scale individual. We must learn to keep an open mind, remembering that in contrast to the vast field of knowledge which has been built up on many subjects, each of us can know but a very limited portion of it. Mutual understanding and mutual understanding alone will lead to the harmony necessary for enduring peace. It is highly gratifying to have so many of you present at these exercises today. It is particularly inspiring to have so many veterans organizations with us. For they, above all others, know the high price of war. They have lived first hand with its terrific waste and horrible devastation. They know why every avenue of peaceful settlement must be explored to avoid plunging us once again into the debacle of self-destruction. You will forgive me, I know, for extending a special word of welcome to my own group, the John Wanamaker American Legion Post of Philadelphia. For they have traveled almost a hundred miles to be here. Many of them left their homes before six o'clock this morning. I also want to add a greeting to the John Wanamaker Post of New York. Thank you, Mr. Impolitari. It is with mixed emotions and, uh, once more, I want to express my warm appreciation and deep gratitude for the honor which the City of New York has bestowed on me today. I shall endeavor to fulfill the responsibility of its challenge. And as I close, I can think of no better message to leave with all of you than Abraham Lincoln's immortal words. With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the right, as God gives us to see the right. Let us strive on to finish the work we are in, to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan, to do all which we may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves and all nations. Thank you very much, Mr. Wanamaker, for your very inspiring address. May I also thank the members of the John Wanamaker Post of the American Legion who've journeyed all the way from Philadelphia to New York to attend these ceremonies and to assure them that the City of New York is deeply appreciative of their presence and also to let them know that in the City of New York they will receive the warm response and the warm welcome of all the people of our city. We will now have a band selection by the Fire Department's band of the City of New York. Let's get started! Las Fountains Legislative I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
