Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. And tonight we continue with our program, Our Common Maladjustments. And the topic for discussion this evening is the unconscious fear of sex. Now, while you're all here, it gives me a wonderful opportunity of giving you a week's prescription for your activities. Cooper Union is very delighted to have been able to plan your week for you. And beginning Thursday evening, this being Tuesday night, beginning on Thursday night, listen to WNYC, Cooper Union Forum of the Air, 9 p.m. On Sunday night, next, the great philosopher from Columbia University, Dr. Erwin Edmond, is speaking here on communication through art. Very famous man and usually has a great deal to say. He was speaking here next Sunday night. And one week from tonight, the topic of discussion will be over-dependence with Dr. Lawrence Schaffer. Some of you may not know that on Monday evenings, in room 203 in this building, we're running a short course on cancer. And on this coming Monday, the lecture will be on progress in cancer control. And this course is being given by several very good physicians. It is an effort to provide information about this very interesting topic, which we all need to know a great deal more about. May I call to your attention that on Wednesday evening, November 29th, these are not in your programs, incidentally. Wednesday evening, November 29th, we are having a symposium here on the Asians look at us. This is based on the idea that it might do us some good to be able to understand them if we could find out how they look at us here. And Dr. Pearl Buck, the Nobel Prize winner, will be the principal speaker of the evening. And Dr. Chang-Wing C. and Dr. Subhas Kedar will also be speaking on that particular evening. Of course, I could probably go on and tell you more about the wonderful things that are happening here in Cooper Union. This, of course, rules out Democratic rallies that we have had a little difficulty with. But that is purely a Democratic Party matter and has nothing to do with the Cooper Union. Although, many of you were here last night and saw more policemen than I knew New York City had. I had quite an idea of what was going on. The longer I talk here, the more restless you're going to become. Now, I could keep on talking for quite a while because it's seldom that I have such a nice and such a fine large audience to talk to. But I know why you're here. I do really know why you're here. And it is, of course, to hear Dr. Lena Levine, consultant in the marriage counseling program of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. Psychiatrist. Lecturer. Author. Mother. Mother. Mother. Mother. Lady physician. And I'll take off the physician and add from my own personal acquaintance, a very nice and a very charming lady. And it has given us a great deal of pleasure to invite her back here to the Cooper Union to speak on the topic of the unconscious fear of sex. Dr. Levine. While compliments are being passed around, I would like to tell you people how delightful it is to come here. I have lectured now in many parts of our country and even abroad. And I have never met an audience that is so attentive and so responsive. At a recent group that I held on problems of sexual maladjustment, we had a young woman who came with tremendous problems because her husband seemed to be so disturbed about her reaction to him. And she felt that since she was coming among women, she was going to get quite a response, approval. But she found that when we discussed some of the aspects of her problem with her husband, that some of it could be that she didn't understand or she didn't know. So, after a few sessions, she said, you know, Dr. Levine, you and my husband ought to get together. She says, all you think about is sex, sex, sex. And I have come here to talk to you about what is, we think, one of a very common maladjustment among men and women today. That of sexual maladjustment. And we chose the topic of unconscious fear of sex because it is the basic thing that makes for the maladjustment. Now, I'd like to examine this title of the talk, unconscious fear of sex, first. Let's talk about the term unconscious. Some of you accept the fact that we have an unconscious. Others of you are confused and puzzled by it, while others completely and emphatically deny its existence. It is understandable that there would be rejection of the concept of the unconscious, since it is revealed to us by the most unreasonable methods, by fantasies, or what we are likely to call daydreams, by dreams, and by talking freely and permitting every thought, relevant or irrelevant, to be expressed. As rational creatures, and most of us, as human beings, are rather proud of the fact that we are rational, we are threatened frequently by the idea that we have thoughts and feelings of which we are unconscious or unaware of. It's disturbing to anybody to be told that his behavior is motivated by feelings that he's unaware of. Sigmund Freud's contribution of what this unconscious is, how we know it exists, how it is revealed, and what to do about these revelations, has been accepted in principle by all schools of thought. Now about fear. Fear is defined in Webster's Dictionary as a painful emotion or passion, excited by an expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger. It expresses less apprehension than dread, and is accompanied with a desire to avoid or ward off expected evil. When we're grown up, we don't think we fear. Yes, all of us will admit that we're afraid of an atomic bomb exploding here in the United States, but that's reasonable and legitimate. But to fear sex, most of us know it as a natural urge, and we don't fear natural urges. And to the many who know of sex as pleasurable, seems a little ridiculous to conceive of such an idea. Yet we do know and accept the fact that some people have sex problems. But we like to think that most of them are usually explainable, and we hope easily remediable. Most people, when faced with a sex problem, hope to find a physical basis for it. And when, as most frequently happens, the doctor who is first consulted, says it's not due to physical causes, and not amenable to the usual medical treatment, people become puzzled and anxious. The doctor says it's psychological, or emotional, due to a disturbance which would be treated by revealing the emotional conflicts from the unconscious. That it would be necessary to bring to light the unconscious fears, dreads, and guilty feelings. I recall a case recently in a hospital of a woman who, for some unconscious reason, had stopped functioning as far as her kidneys were concerned. And every examination revealed that there was nothing organic, and she went to one of the doctors in the psychiatric clinic, and she was told that it was in her mind. Now, most people, when they're told that something in their mind, think of something which means that they are not quite all right. And this woman said, if it's in my mind, then I'm crazy. If I'm crazy, why don't they send me to a crazy house? And actually, we must be aware of the fact that when we talk about a thing as not being organic, and not being conscious but unconscious, that it is in the part of our mind, not the mind, the part that reasons, but there is an area in our mind or brain which is the seat of all our feelings. And feeling disturbances will be the thing that will explain a good many of these maladjustments. Let us now examine how it is that a natural, healthy urge is transformed into one of conflict with resulting distortions and dysfunction. Let us first look at the influence of our culture in the sexual development and in the sexual behavior of men and women, which places interpretations and resulting curves on these urges. Presumably, we have accepted as right, proper, and moral that these restrictions should be adhered to, though they may be contrary to our natural wishes and desires. In the United States, we have and are still influenced in our concepts of sex behavior by a code which found its origin in the early Hebrew code. The philosophy of the Hebrew code was that there was only one justification for any sexual activity, and that was procreation. The pleasure that could be derived from sex functioning was probably recognized, and the varied restrictions placed on boys and girls, men and women, to prevent arousal of sex desires is testimony to that fact. There is an interesting book on sex laws and customs, and one of the stories interested me, and it told of, it said it worked this way, this is the way the thing ran. If a man has a business which deals with women, his wife should be in the business with him. If his wife can't be in the business, he shouldn't be in the business. Early marriages at that time usually coincided with the increased development of sex desire that occurs in puberty. modesty in dress and manner imposed on the woman was a necessary means to avoid the arousal of the male. Marriage was the answer to the sex needs of the male. The code called for early marriage, therefore, chastity for the man and woman, and fidelity after marriage was made more possible. Adherence to this made for a fairly simple way of life in a framework of a monogamous, permanent marriage. But as centuries rolled by, code was and is being violated as Kinsey in his monumental studies has and will be emphasizing and re-emphasizing. And I don't know if I've told you this, but Kinsey's new book, as somebody said, on women will be called Kin She The adherence to the code of chastity for the female was made possible because of fears instilled in her, expressed succinctly by a famous gynecologist as that of infection, conception, and detection. But the male found he could be discreet, avoid detection, be relieved of the fear of infection by means made available to him, and also avoid the conception of his partner, and so he did not remain chaste before marriage. And when he found his sex needs not adequately satisfied in marriage, he began to seek it outside of marriage. Society tacitly accepted these violations when not detected. The male maintained and imposed his conclusions on the female that his needs were more powerful than hers, and she accepted it. I hope you won't feel I'm a feminist, I really love men. It was simple for her to do so because the restrictions imposed on her as a result of the fears of infection, conception, and detection was strong enough to have repressed whatever urge or need she had. Cultural influences then have in the past and still do impose restrictions and curbs in the form of conscious fears and result in feelings of guilt, particularly when detected. now let us look at the development of our sex urges and the conflicts that frequently develop and on which these cultural restrictions are imposed. Whether we agree completely with the Freudian concept of libidinal development or not, it is certain to all that sexuality begins very early in life, not suddenly developing at puberty when there is beginning development of reproduction. The infant demonstrates very early it is exploration of its body that the sexual parts result in a type of satisfaction on touch that is different from touching other parts of its body. Investigation of people of more primitive cultures than ours who are not bound by our code reveals that unrestrained children will soon begin to explore each other's sex parts, play with each other, and even before puberty have sexual contact with one another. This would be a natural development in our children too if we did not curb it. But we do. And with what result? The child is prevented from touching itself and associates this restriction with a threat of injury from the parent if he persists and also possible injury to himself. This results in a feeling that there is something wrong with obtaining pleasure from oneself and impels the child to repress this desire and with this repression goes an emotional tone tone of something wrong something to be feared. This experience the punishment the fear of injury to oneself and the displeasure of the parents the feelings of resentment against them the resulting feeling of guilt against one whom one loves and fears to love remains in all its intensity even though presumably repressed in the unconscious and as we usually say completely forgotten. Many times these early manifestations of sex in the child are not dealt with at all or even recognized by the parent and the child develops its own way of handling it. When the child is old enough to play with others he learns that sex play and sex talk is prohibited and he therefore has again to adapt himself to his desires without any help from those whom he gets all his knowledge parents teachers and others. Despite the prohibitions we know that many children do engage in secret sex play and sex talk but the fear and guilt they experience in doing this and the half-truths that they learn about them when such experiences is unsatisfactory at best even when not caught at it. When found out they're punished and may end it or revert to obtaining satisfactions from themselves constantly as a relief. The fears that develop regarding these sex organs themselves will affect the functioning later. Fears of castration and injury to the sex parts incapacitate them even when the adult consciously knows and is reassured that they're physically normal. The relationship between father and mother is to the child a fascinating and mysterious one. He daydreams about it and many of these fantasies in regard to sex relationships seem to have an element of danger. His efforts to solve his confusion regarding pregnancy birth, death, sex experiences are involved in these daydreams and they will profoundly influence the direction in which he will later adapt himself. A girl who is found masturbating is told that she's damaging herself and the manner in which she learns about her role in reproduction is one associated with feelings of something that is horrible, dangerous, and injurious. Her concept of the male in his relationship to her is one of somebody who is going to inflict danger upon her and the boy in his fantasy views a woman as sexually injured and fears that the same thing may happen to him. He therefore may avoid this female or later when he performs sexually will do it quickly for fear of injury to her and to himself. Boys and girls have fantasies also of relationships with their brothers and sisters. There may even be an exchange of sexual information and varying degrees of sex play which will continue secretly. Whether one accepts the concept of the Oedipus as a universal one, certainly mother is for the boy and girl one who feeds and comforts and is to the mother to whom the child comes for solutions when tensions arise. How she solves them will affect the child both in his choice of partner and in his functioning. Willfully or not, mothers may arouse their son's sexual desires and fathers frequently court their daughter's favor. The adult behavior will be guided by the manner in which the child satisfies his own needs with his behavior with children of his own sex and the opposite sex. Will depend on how secure he feels with his parents, how he is accepted by and functions with his group, how his whole emotional development is treated and on what he observes and is taught. If a child is to function adequately in adult sex life, he must have derived goals, established a fixed role for himself and accepted a definite type of individual to become a sex companion. A failure to work out his deep-seated sexual fears can lead to failures in other areas too. If the feeling is that sexual activity leads to danger and difficulty, an effective goal is not to be hoped for. If other people are looked upon as inaccessible, ineffectual, or hostile, they will not be sought for, as an aid. Sexual needs will go on for biological or sociological reasons, but satisfaction will be sacrificed for illusions of security. The inner needs will continue and the individual may be driven into the use of distorted techniques. There is still another factor to be considered, which is a very important aspect of sexual functioning and adaptation. The fact of the sex force as a basic deed in all should not divert us from the knowledge that it may be of varying capacity in individuals. And it's interesting today that we're finding out more and more about individual capacity as we are talking more about sex and revealing more about our sex needs. That it is a developmental process and that early experiences and attitudes influence it. That since it is an emotional experience, it also depends upon the emotional capacity of the individual who experiences it. It must also be recognized that the personality of the individual will be reflected in his sex functioning as it is in all other areas. And that the individual's ability to relate himself to another person will influence his functioning. And the cultural pattern will be the framework in which all these adjustments are to be made. We're seeing today changes in the cultural pattern resulting from the change in the status of women and its effect on her relationship with men both in and out of marriage. Released as the woman is now by the scientific advances from the realistic fears of infection and conception with an awareness that she too may have sex needs and urges which may be as strong as the need of the male and perhaps at times stronger. And if our lectures keep up in a few years we'll be talking about the problems of the desire of the woman who is stronger than that of the male. The urge for procreation is a primary one in the female and sex as the means of obtaining it this result is desired unconsciously and consciously as is also the pleasure to be derived from it. Our insistence that young men and women marry only when economically ready makes early marriage impossible and leaves a long period during which according to our code needs must be curbed until it is possible to fulfill them but little guidance as to how to accomplish it. Again it is left to the young men and women to solve it. These become realistic problems which young men and women today are pointing up and which contribute to a confused and distorted behavior pattern overlying the deeper conflicts fears and guilts which have been alluded to. In marriage sex plays a primary role a satisfactory sex experience brings at its climax a generalized feeling of well-being with extreme satisfaction with oneself and one's mate who shared in the experience and which made the reaction possible. The sexual experience is the first most intimate and close relationship two people share in marriage. The good feeling resulting from the mutual satisfaction extends to other areas makes more possible the adjustment that will be required. The ability to work out needs that differ as they do at times demonstrates an ability to go beyond one's satisfaction to consider the needs of the other partner. When the frequency of desires varies as it does so often working out a pattern satisfactory to both requires one or the other to give up his own desire for the sake of the other. Where the woman's response is slower as it frequently is the man's control of so powerful and impulse and urge of the sex force is shows evidence of thoughtfulness and consideration for the woman who is sharing the experience. Giving to a man a pleasure he seeks which may not be mutually satisfactory is evidence of the woman's feeling for him her pleasure in giving him something he desires. The ability of a man to accept a woman's giving when she is not receiving a similar response is evidence of his good feeling and acceptance of his own needs is justifiable even when they are not mutual. The sexual maladjustments seen in marriage are many. Among the major ones are the potency disturbances in the male and the lack of complete response in the female. These maladjustments may be seen in couples where there is otherwise a good adjustment as well as those with conflicts in other areas. In an analysis of 100 cases of marriage problems from my own case records 44 were of sexual maladjustment 31 of these lack of response in the wife. The sexual areas of the marital relationship is one which presents as many if not more problems as marriage goes on. Any emotional experience loses some of its intensity if it is repeated but regularly as a pattern of behavior. Stimulation of sex desire is psychic and the same stimulus may become less of a stimulus. A woman's body changes with age and childbearing as she becomes a less exciting stimulus. The demand a woman makes for continual lovemaking which is necessary for her reaction may at times be irksome to the man. When he is subjected in his work to the stimulation of younger exciting women they become more desirable sex partners. Only a deep love which persists enables the acceptance of physical change and blocks out the exciting new stimulus. Men and women go through various stages in life each stage appearing in itself. We must expect changes and adjust ourselves to them because we are aware of our responsibilities to our partners our children and society. Let us consider now the matter of parenthood. Fear of pregnancy is a common phenomenon and plays a role in the acceptance of both men and women of their role in sex and as parents. Most men and women want children. Only a small percentage remain involuntarily childless. The desire to plan and space children has become increasingly widespread among all groups. Safe, reliable methods of contraception are available to aid couples in spacing their children and contributes to the greater acceptance of sex and marriage. Fear of pregnancy lack of acceptance of her role as a female are factors which sometimes underlie the causes for those 10% of the population who want children and are involuntarily sterile. Today there is much greater expectation for marriage than ever before. Men and women are seeking for happiness in marriage. They don't want just to be married. They desire happiness yet they are frequently ignorant of, at times unwilling, or sometimes incapable of accepting the fact that they and their partners are two particular personalities and that in marriage they are required to accept each other as he or she is. They seek satisfaction of their basic needs for love, emotional security, for sex, and for parenthood yet they lack the knowledge of or at times not completely capable of satisfying these needs through a partner. They accept the fact that environmental factors, family, influences, changing mores, economics, play a part in their relationship. But how, how much, and ways and means to cope with them is not sufficiently clear. They want their relationship to be permanent, but they're not aware of or relatively incapable of accepting the changes that come in marriage and the responsibilities placed upon them to do so. The problem of sexual adjustment has in it the element of a problem inherent in anything we share with someone else, where we must be aware of not only our own needs but those of the other person. If then, sex is considered as a forceful need and drive in a person, usually associated with another person, the problem inherent in its guidance and possible control and curbing can be more readily accepted. If, too, sex is considered as a functioning of the total person, as part of the individual's totality and is not dissociated, the whole problem of a sex with a person one loves rather than the expression of sex purely as a biological need will be significant. It may help to clarify the problems young people have today of premarital sex relations and those of the married people who have sex outside of marriage. What can we do to help? What specifically can we offer in the problem area of sexual maladjustment with its basic unconscious fears? All our efforts must be directed toward eliminating it as a problem of maladjustment to one of adjustment. And this will mean, first, a healthy, mature adjustment. And what did it? healthy, mature adjustment between men and women early in marriage before children are planned for. I wonder why I got dry just at this point. Think about it later. men and women can be helped to make their sexual and emotional lives happy and secure for themselves as a pattern for their children to follow, as a climate in which they can accomplish a most challenging task to develop their children not only to physical and mental maturity but to emotional maturity. by beginning to educate with proper facts and proper attitudes regarding sex behavior in the cradle. In 1948, there was a White House conference on the family. In 1950, next week, there will be a conference, White House conference on the child. And in this conference on the family, the discussion ranged about the beginning family, the expanding family, and the diminishing family. And most of the sections which represented people from all groups who were interested in the family never got beyond the beginning family. There was so much to do at the beginning. And one of the most important things that everybody stressed was attitudes towards marriage and family life began in the cradle. And the thing that stumped everybody was how to get this knowledge over to those people who first bend over that cradle. And in my opinion, talks such as this that you people attend and that young people attend are the answer to learning about what to do, what to say, as one bends over the cradle to influence the child who is going to grow up in what we think will be a happy family unit. Teaching such as this will mean a re-evaluation of our sex code and a clarification of the ways and means to achieve it. There should also be continuing education in the schools adding to the knowledge gained in the home. And here, I would like emphatically to state that those of us not bound by any religious curbs are aware of the fact that education begun in the home where it should be, should be continued in the schools. Wherever the child comes in contact with knowledge, some of that knowledge should be in relationship to its needs, but in a framework of sex as a functioning in an individual, in a relationship, in a setting, which is family life. then there should be preparation for marriage, consulting with young people primarily to give them more knowledge, highlight facts already known, give them proper contraceptive knowledge, and a general discussion of the emotional factors in marriage and the problems to be faced. And one of the problems that they face are mother-in-laws, as you know. At a recent meeting, I spoke to women who were mother-in-laws. And, of course, some people might think the best solution is to line them up and bop, bop, bop. But actually, I think mother-in-laws can, with the exception of few who are such good mother-in-laws, be made aware of the anomalous position they're in today. And when I spoke to these mother-in-laws, I said, when you, your son, picks a girl, and she's a grown girl by now, she has her own ideas of whom she likes and whom she doesn't like, and she meets you for the first time, and who are you? You're the kind of woman she never liked. And yet, she's supposed to love you, she's a daughter, a new daughter. Then let her try and be a daughter. And she'll most likely be kicked on the shins because she's saying things she ought not to, things that she could say in her home very readily as a daughter. And then the reverse is true, too. Suppose the mother beats the son-in-law for the first time, he's just the kind of a fellow she never liked. What is she to do? And the attitude we suggest is tolerance. The children tolerate their in-laws and the in-laws tolerate their children. Recognizing that as our culture has changed, since young people are not dependent upon their in-laws for economic security, their attitude towards them can only be one of tolerance. Liking them if they're likable people and not liking them if they're not. And I think that kind of thinking will help all of us who are mother-in-laws today and those of us who are going to be mother-in-laws. And also, I would suggest something that is not done but we have done experiments on and I hope that it might be something many of you will take part in. And that is what I call stock-taking in marriage. I'm not a businesswoman but I have a hunch that businessmen when they take stock get rid of old stuff that won't do and that old stuff they may sell out in the sale or something and then they keep stuff that's still good and then they add for the coming years for the coming season. And that's what we should do in marriage. Take stock and re-evaluate what shall we let go what shall we keep and what more do we need to know. Also for our evaluation of self I suggest another thing an emotional checkup an annual emotional checkup. Right now we're encouraging physical checkups to keep us healthy and now we ought to be able to take stock and yearly examine ourselves with help if necessary to help us to maturity if we are not mature. And I remember a girl sitting before me with her husband and he's smoking a pipe and she says I can't get along with him because he is immature and he just keeps on smoking his pipe. And if any of you know Freudian psychology that of course makes him immature he's at the oral stage since he's smoking a pipe. And then I said to her well when he went out I said that was a very good diagnosis you made that he's immature but how do you treat him? And she looks at me and says how do I treat him? I treat him like a man. And then I said but you just said he was a boy. She could make the diagnosis but she couldn't treat him in the way he should. Well when I spoke of that at a lecture one time somebody in the audience then said my God Dr. Levine do you mean to say you have to live with a boy when you're a grown woman all the rest of your life? And of course it could be vice versa you see being a woman I think of the man is immature. And I said no if you treat him like a boy and make the climate favorable he will grow because there is within us an urge to grow emotionally just as there is within us an urge to grow physically and to grow mentally. And I say that advisedly because we hear a lot of the fact that many of us are immature and we have difficulty handling our relationships in marriage because marriage calls for maturity in all areas especially in the sexual area. And I think that the annual emotional checkup would be we'd catch the immature person and make possible for that growth which has gone unrecognized and which the woman or the man faced with a partner who is immature finds so difficult to treat. Now in conclusion and I I'm leaving lots of time because I'm sure most of you are going to ask me questions and I hope I'll be able to answer them. I would like to say that recognition of the problem that I discussed tonight a realistic approach to it discussing it as we do here will be the answer to eliminate this and other of our maladjustments. Without seeming like Pollyanna I think we can look forward to much healthier relationships among people in families as a result of our greater understanding. Also a healthier relationship of us in our communities because it results from that. If we can have a good relationship within our family that is an incentive and an impulse for relationships good relationships among other families and a good community. A good community will be a focus for other communities and there will be good relationships in nations and then possibly good relationship between nations. And I can even conceive of one world a happy one not a dream world. I think it is a reality. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Levine. We will have our usual question period in about five minutes. I have paper and pencil here and I wish you would all do me one favor when you ask a question will you please ask a question that I'm able to repeat up here on the stage for Dr. Levine thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, ladies and gentlemen. All right, ladies and gentlemen. All right, ladies and gentlemen, we have about 7,433 questions here. I don't have any idea how many of these we can get through, but we're going to attempt some of them. Some of them we probably won't be able to handle at all. Of course, the doctor could, but it's just that I can't read properly. How did we ever get into this title anyway, doctor? Dr. Fairchild said he wanted me to talk on fear of sex, and I said nobody fears sex. Only in our unconscious do we fear it, so it became the unconscious fear of sex. Such collaboration. Now, I have had to hear about 16 questions on the problem of premarital chastity. Now, these are in various forms, in various ways, but they get back to that same problem. Dear Dr. Levine, what do you think about premarital chastity or sex relations? Why don't you talk about that for a little bit, and that will cover quite a few of these questions. Well, as I said before, our code maintains, and it still exists, that men and women be chased before marriage and after marriage. Actually, as I said before, it doesn't exist. It never existed in centuries. Men, greater number of men, as Kinsey has pointed out, have not been chased before marriage, and a goodly percentage are not after marriage. We also know that there are different groups. We call them socioeconomic groups. We don't have any classes in here in the United States, but we have socioeconomic groups, or groups of different intellectual attainment levels. And Kinsey has pointed out that in the lower intellectual group, there is more of premarital sex than there is in the middle class groups, in the more educated groups. Now, the middle class is the group where that code is being threatened, where the woman is asking, why shouldn't she indulge in sex before marriage, since it has been given as a privilege to the male? That is a problem we, who are parents, who are so-called experts, who are working in fields of marriage and family living, have been giving a good deal of attention. Who should answer that? I don't think any of us have an answer, or should answer, but we should think about it. And think about it in this way. We have a responsibility to our children to guide them, to give them precepts, to teach them certain responsibilities. But at the same time, we must recognize that there is a powerful urge within them, that mores change, and our thinking as to their behavior must be different than the thinking was when we were young. So often people have a tendency to say, well, when I was young, this didn't happen, therefore it shouldn't happen now. But things are different. They change. And I think our thinking should be based on the knowledge that there is a very powerful urge. And maybe we should go back to the old Hebraic way of early marriage, which means support, economic support of children who cannot support themselves. If we don't guide this urge and impulse, I will say it here, as I've said in other lecture platforms, that in a certain period of time, we will have universal premarital sex relations. If you ask me today, do I think it is sound or wise, I would say that in my experience today, and I don't know what I'll say five or ten years from now, but today I find that the premarital sex experience has a very desirable effect for the male. For the female, however, because of detection, the fear of detection, because of the fact that she hasn't the proper means for proper contraception, there is a fear of pregnancy. And the circumstances under which the female has a necessity to perform this act with the male makes for a lack of response in her. We also have the basic knowledge that the female today, in marriage even, needs many, many months and many, many years before she responds completely in sex. So for her, for the most part, the sexual experience is not the satisfactory and happy relationship that it is for the male. Now if we think, again, of sex as purely a biological need for ourselves alone, then certainly premarital sex is a very desirable thing for the male. But if we were to think of the relationship and how this thing affects the partner who is giving us this pleasure, it may give pause. That's as much as I can say about it. I think that even if we can eliminate, as I have said in my talk, fears of pregnancy and fears of detection, we still have the problem of a lack of response on the part of the woman, and then the question comes up, should then this be indulgent if it isn't going to be a mutual experience? What I'll say about it five or ten years from now, I don't know. This is my stand in 1950. Thank you. Doctor, would you please elaborate on your ideas of emotional inventory? There have been quite a few questions on this emotional inventory problem. They've been worded in many different ways, but could you enlarge on that a little bit? That will also cover it. Yes. This is the debut of my thinking on the annual checkup or the emotional inventory. I have been very much impressed always, as I have treated people with emotional problems, that I have felt that maybe these could be avoided, and that's the thinking I always do. I like to treat, but I prefer to prevent. And my thinking had been, when I saw people married for many years with problems that they had not solved, particularly the sexual area, knowing that had they had knowledge, even premaritaly or immediately after marriage, had they had different attitudes, that this problem may never have arisen. And that's what made me think in terms of the stock taking. Let's take stock at an anniversary, first year, two years, three years, five years. Instead of just a party or a remembrance, it should be a time to take stock. Let's see how we have done up till now. Let's see what we're doing now and what we have to do for the future. I also thought of the annual checkup for people's emotional life. And in analyzing it, we have to say, am I getting satisfaction from just being myself? How am I doing myself? Have I realized my own potentialities? How am I doing in my relationships if I'm single with my parents, with my friends, if I'm married with my spouse, if I have children, the two of us with their children? How am I doing in my work relationship? How am I doing if I'm a housewife? Do I like my housewife, housework? Why not? If not, can I add to it? If I'm a man and working outside, am I in work that I enjoy? Can I do something else about it? Our relationships to our friends, to our families, and our relationships in the community. All those can be analyzed, clarified, and a good deal of understanding, clarified, misunderstanding, clarified, ready to go ahead for the next year. Who will do this work? I don't know. I'm just projecting it here at Cooper Union for the first time. I've been thinking about it, and I felt that it ought to be written and it ought to be said. How it will be done, well, we'll tell you if you want to know. Right now is just a thinking and something that will have to be worked out. Thank you, Doctor. That reminds me that several people asked... Excuse me. , Several people would like to know where they could do some more reading on this general topic. One, what publications would you recommend for mature people to read and to have a little more basic ideas on it? on. The booklet has it. I don't usually like to tell books because there are so many and some are good for certain reasons but Dr. Fairchild has compiled an awfully good list for you for the various discussions of various topics and under the unconscious fear of sex he has studies, Havelock Ellis Studies in the Psychology of Sex, The Ethics in Sex Conduct, Love Against Hate by Menninger and Women and Men by Scheinfeld. There are many others I feel that the field is tremendous now. More and more is being written. As they say, I don't particularly like to pick out just a few. It just isn't fair to some of the publishers and authors I think. Alright, doctor. You've talked a good deal about maturity and immaturity. Now I have a handful of questions all of which deal with the problem of immaturity in individuals. One, just what is this maturity that you're speaking of? What kind of a standard is this that you're setting up? And how can this sexual maturity be obtained? How would you define it? How would you say a person would go about getting this maturity? You alluded to a pipe smoking anecdote. Somebody didn't get that. Would like to understand whether... Somebody would like to know whether all pipe smokers are immature. There are a good many questions on this. Yes, I think that's some of the gamut of the questions. In other words, there's a great deal of interest in your concept of standards of maturity and immaturity and what can be done, if anything. It isn't easy to define a mature person. Yet, we try to use characteristics and attributes which we think are due to maturity. I mean, will be part of being mature. But certainly, being mature means grown up. Grown up means that one accepts oneself as one is. One can we use the term relate. One can have a relationship with another person on an equal basis. One can give, one can take. One can compromise. A mature person can anticipate, can plan. A mature person reacts to his feelings as they should be. In other words, when something makes him happy, he's happy. When something makes him sad, he's sad. He reacts to a stimulus. Not less, not more. Many other attributes can be attributed to a person who is mature. A sexual maturity would mean that an individual has reached a stage where he desires, he or she desires, to have sexual relationships with the opposite sex. And only sexual relationship with the opposite sex. By that I mean not necessarily fidelity, but one can have a sexual relationship that's gratifying to oneself and to the other person. Recognizing that sometimes, as I said before, the other person's needs were not exactly the same, but adjusting oneself. It also means that one has sex in a framework of an emotional relationship. There's a feeling besides the sex biologic need. Also that one recognizes that this is a need satisfied through a relationship that changes as it goes on. That's being mature, rather than to want to recapture. And we're seeing that phenomenon more and more and more. We're seeing the fact that a man out in the world, out in business, with a woman at home, is very definitely stimulated by younger women. And because his sex urges decrease as he gets older, which are natural, a natural change, he wants to recapture his youth. He wants to have relationships with this younger woman. And our culture is, in a sense, condoning it. As a look at South Pacific, I didn't look at it, but I hear about it. Maturity would mean that a man of 50 would look for a woman of 50, rather than the woman of 30, because she is mature as he is. And she can and should satisfy his needs. Sexual maturity would also mean aware that one has a certain responsibility to others. And the mature person keeps going in his sexual experience and, as will happen, and this is one of the questions that was passed over, but I saw it, when the sex desires of one wanes or possibly decreases so much so that it's practically nil, what does the other partner do? Yearn for it? Has a need for it? Yes. But can curb it? Maturity means that we can postpone our desires and our satisfactions. We can even repress them for the sake of some goal or some desired object. Those are the things that I feel would be attributes of being mature. It would make for the ability for two people to remain permanently married. And I say that advisedly because more and more you're hearing here in this hall and other places how important is the stable relationship between parents to a growing child. That what we are and what we will be as adults is begun in early childhood. And if that childhood is in a framework with two parents who are well adjusted, who are happy together, and who intend and will remain permanently together, that child has the best chance for its growth to maturity. Now, those of you who are students of Freud, we will come to the pipe smoking incident, know that he has, his concept is one of all of us are born with a certain amount of what he calls libido, which is primarily sexual need, which then changes into all other emotional reactions. And that we go through various stages where we get satisfactions in different areas. First, it's oral, through the mouth, through food. And so later, when we chew gum and we smoke, it means we still need satisfaction through our mouths. That's why when I said that this man was sitting there with a pipe in his mouth, that he would presumably still be needing his satisfaction through his mouth and he gets it through his pipe. That's what that meant. And then the satisfactions come through other areas, through the anal, then later through the genital and the sexual. And the final stage is the sexual development, which makes a desire for one of the opposite sex. And the feeling there is that if any time people don't have any proper adjustment, it's because they have either regressed or they are fixed at a particular stage of this libidinal development. There are many people who don't agree with this theory of Freud, though we agree hardly with his concept of the unconscious and how the unconscious can be reached. But the people who believe in the Freudian theory completely adhere to the fact that we do go through these stages and there's nothing to argue about. You either accept it or reject it. But I would like very much to say to you that I feel that if we're aware, ourselves, and we are, and if we're honest with ourselves, we know whether we are mature or not. And if we feel we are, we should be able then. And this is something that I think needs to be told, that there is a tendency today when people are analyzed or find out about their maladjustments to find themselves suddenly not in sympathy with their partner and say, well, I chose this partner of mine when I was not in a mature state. Now I'm mature. I don't need this partner anymore. And we see a good deal of separation and divorce. Now my feeling is that the challenge of the mature person, to the mature person, is to make an adjustment to anybody. Instead of saying, this partner of mine is not good for me. Any partner would be good for me because I'm so well-adjusted that I can adjust myself to the other person. And I'm all for retaining a relationship, even though one is going through the anxieties and the anguish of finding out one's own difficulties, one's own conflicts, and solving them. Now I may be saying something that's rather heretic in some circles, but I, you see, am a believer in the stability of marriage and family life. And I feel we can still evaluate ourselves and break ourselves down and build ourselves up again in the framework of the original marriage rather than to say, this is not good for me now, I want another one. Thank you, doctor. Did it ever occur to some of these people that some people just happen to like tobacco? Recently, there's been a lot of talk about men marrying women that are older than they are so that they will have a more equal lifespan together. Do you think that this will also result in happy sexual relationships? What can we do about this? That's just because you ladies go on living so long. Well, interestingly enough, Kinsey's going to point out, some of us know what he's going to point out because he talked a little bit in the old days, now he's kept quiet until his book comes out, that the sexual maturity of women is different from that of men. Where the height of maturity is at 16 in the male, it's not until the late 20s that the woman reaches her sexual maturity and it goes on and on and on. I don't know if I told this story but it's interesting to show how we don't know much about the sex lives of older people and I had occasion to discuss the sexual problems of today with a very learned woman of 65 and she happened to immediately say she wouldn't have talked most likely if I'd asked, I wouldn't have asked but she said, you know, doctor, she says, at my age, I still enjoy it. Isn't it a shame? So that if older women are going to marry younger men from the sexual point of view they need not worry because the women will be very good sex partners until past, in fact, the time when they go through this so-called change because I have recently been doing some I've recently been doing a good deal of investigation in the preparation of a book on menopause and we find that that's a myth that women change even. They just keep on developing. Dr. I've been so busy with my filing system here that I have I haven't been listening attentively to every word you said. Did you discuss arguments against premarital indulgence by young couples? This particular individual would like you to give some good arguments against premarital indulgence. Did you give that? I was so busy there that I missed that. You gave that number. That's fine. Then somebody else would like to know since you seem to advocate premarital sexual relations for the males and repression for the females do you think that some system some social system should be developed in this country that would take care of that obvious situation? This is what I call This is what I call it just goes to show you. Luckily there's a fellow down there who's recording what I say. Did I say men should have premarital sex? I said they do. And more and more women are having premarital sex relations. You see we're not going to have any problems we doctors who do investigations because so many times we want to do experimentation. We can't experiment with human beings but they do their own experiments. And we know now that in about a few years we'll be able to tell you whether premarital sex for women is better than we think it should be because they're doing it. And I don't say I advocate it. I just tell you what I see. I don't see it but I hear about it. Quite a few people have asked questions about the problem of what to tell children and when to tell them and how do you know and how much control should you exercise over children without having undue effect on their life. how far do you let a little child go without having them just go wild? Some of you may have been here before when I tell these stories but I think they bear repetition. I think we're at the stage now in sex education in this space. Years ago when it was just simply terrific for a woman to teach her children sex it was such a modern thing to do. They tell a story about a woman who was very determined to do it and she was going to tell the children of course first about the birds the bees and the flowers and then come to the human and she was going to be so careful that she was going to start with artificial flowers. and to characterize the period of today with the mothers as a result of their child study groups and all the other places where they've been learning all this the little girl comes to her mother at four or five and says mama where do I come from and the woman just sort of rubs her hand and glee here's a chance to give forth and she tells the child in great detail all that she had learned very very detailed and the kid gets listens and after a while gets restless and she says Janie came from Philadelphia where did I come from? so that in giving information we must not go to either extreme you answer as the questions are asked the questions are asked early and you give an answer that is truthful and that can be the beginning of more truths and more reinforcement later the idea of making it the stalk brings it or the seeds are planted the child goes out and plants a seed and no baby comes and it's a very disappointing thing because remember parents are at a certain stage the term we use omnipotent they give everything to the child and the child really thinks they know everything and learns later after a while that they don't give everything and they don't know everything but if information is given it should be extremely absolutely correct and children come you know shall I tell you from two cells to wait to hear this kind of music when the saints come marching in Mr. Allen here comes Mr. Allen down the aisle Mr. Allen will you take the stand or whatever or anything or not going to be Or are you going to do itself you you have not to delegacia be have not to date but if you need to ask for the gentle fact I'm sorry. I'm sorry. One more, Brother William. Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. One more, Brother Bailey. Brother Allen, when the Saints come marching in. It's when the Saints marching in. It's when the Saints go marching in. Yes, I hope I'll be in that number. It's when the Saints go marching in. Everybody in. It's when the Saints marching in. It's when the Saints go marching in. Yes, I hope I'll be on hallelujah when the Saints go marching in. Carry on. Everybody in when those Saints come marching in. Ladies, Ant Philippine. Stay for now. Baby, Patty hey! Baby, you've got to do this, Nat Philippine. And Yoa Link.chair's song in. Well, we came in with the blues. We're going out with the blues. It won't be the blues, though, if you write a card so we can hear this stuff every week and not every year. Every Saturday at 6, that's our slogan. Drop a card to WNYC Municipal Building, New York 7 for a jazz session every Saturday at 6. This is Bob Mall signing off. See you again. Well, thank you, Bob Mallson, all you guys and gals of jazz land for that boat rocking rhythm. This has been a jazz feature presentation of your city station's 12th annual American Music Festival. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. You won't want to miss the American Music Festival. The Municipal Broadcasting Systemitt van Lindgren