The End What are the movies doing today for good American music? Standing beside me now, and here to get an illustrated answer to this question, are the distinguished composer-critic Deems Taylor, president of the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, and Miss Quentin Seaton, associate editor of Musical America. Mr. Taylor, I think you've come to the right place for an answer to your question. Well, I think so too, Warren. Well, because that music we're hearing in the background is the New England Symphonette from the picture Time Out of Mind, and it's being conducted by Arthur Fiedler of Boston. Mr. Fiedler expects you, Mr. Taylor. So Miss Eton and I will just break right in. Oh, Mr. Fiedler. Gentlemen, gentlemen, if you please, let's take a short intermission. Ask him not to go away, Arthur. No, Mr. Fiedler, we'd like to hear some more of that new work you were playing. Well, I'd be glad to play it all for you. As you may know, I recently had the pleasure of giving it its world premiere in concert form here at one of my Boston concerts. Yes, we know. And that's exactly why we selected you, Arthur, as the person to tell us what Hollywood is doing for good American music. Well, the answer goes back quite a few years, Deems. Well, let's not go too far back. Some of us can remember when the movies weren't doing anything for good American music. Well, I wouldn't be too sure of that either, Deems. Well, I can remember the day of the silent pictures with the battered upright down front. Miss Eton is naturally too young for that. I refuse to commit myself. I suspect that even the silent pictures made a contribution, not so much to music itself, but to music appreciation in its most elementary form. Without committing yourself, Miss Eton, don't you agree to that? Yes, Mr. Fiedler. The early movie audiences must have realized that a dramatic mood could be interpreted and even intensified by the music that pianist played. Well, I'll vote for that, too. Some of that early movie music was good, clean fun. In fact, if we had a pianist here, I think I could tell an early movie story in music. Well, I'm sure Joe Maresco here would be glad to oblige. Just tell him anything you want. All right. Well, Joe, first there was the innocent heroine. And then there was the stalwart hero. And I don't have to tell you who this is. Yes, that character's name was spelled C-A-D. And by subterfuge and trickery, the cad... Knocked out the hero. Then the cad snatched up the heroine. And fled. But the damaged hero managed to crawl to a stockade that flew the American flag. Meanwhile, the villain was forcing the heroine into a fake marriage. When suddenly, galloping over the brow of the hill came, guess who? The United States Marines. Quaintance, you're not too young. And, of course, they lived happily ever after. And that was the way of music in the early days of the movies. But as you know, Deems, that day is long since passed. Yes, happily for us all. Today, films in this country and abroad give a lot of consideration to the musical score. That goes for new music, specially composed, as well as music we already know. For example, Prokofiev was commissioned to do the music for the film Alexander Nevsky. Yes, and the music of Chopin and Schubert has certainly been heard in many recent movies. Not to mention Rachmaninoff's second piano concerto. At least two entire pictures have been built around that one. But today, I think we're all interested in the good new music of today that's inspired and created by the pictures themselves. As you know, writing music for today's modern pictures is a highly exacting art. First, the composer has to create a definite effect. A definite mood that will add to the action the audience is seeing on the screen. Now, this music must never interfere with the action, but still must augment it. In addition, the movie composer must tailor this music with a stopwatch so that it fits every action or scene to the split second. It's not an easy job. It's not easy, Mr. Taylor, but some of our better composers have mastered the art. Don't you agree, Mr. Fiedler? I certainly do, Miss Eaton. One of these composers is Richard Hargiman. Some of you may remember his opera, Kaposaki, when it was produced at the Metropolitan a few seasons back. In Hollywood, Mr. Hargiman has written excellent music for such films as The Long Voyage Home, The Howards of Virginia, and Stagecoach. And incidentally, the music for Stagecoach won Mr. Hargiman an Academy Award. But I think the films whose music excited the most comment recently have been Spellbound and The Lost Weekend. Even people who weren't movie fans came away with the feeling that they had heard good music. Personally, I like the films and the music. The music for these films, Deems, was written by the composers who wrote the score for the picture Time Out of Mind, which features New England's Sinfonette. They're Miklas Rocha and Mario Castelnuovo Tedesco. And in the Sinfonette, did they have any special musical problems? Mr. Taylor, I think I can answer that. Well, I can't think of a better answer than one from an editor of Musical America, so let's have it. The first problem concerns the fact that the hero is not really ready for a big concert, but he's pushed forward by his rich wife. He himself realizes that his piano concerto is very much like Debussy. So the two film composers had to write a work that was completely original, but also imitated. That's quite a job. And it sounded like Debussy on the screen? Well, it created a similar impression. However, before appearing at the concert, the hero imbibed several tall drinks, which I'm afraid were not chocolate sodas. By the way, that is not a typical procedure in the music world, I'm willing to bet. In the middle of his imitation Debussy concerto, he began to interpolate such popular oldies as How Dry I Am in a Bicycle Built for Two. Well, that might have helped imitation Debussy at that. But speaking as a composer, I can see that it required a lot of skill. Well, the hero is finally successful when he writes a symphony about things he knows about his own New England. And that brings us to a point at which I think we've already arrived. And that is that today, the picture studios are using the best composers they can find. And they're asking for the best music these composers can write. And that, I think, adds up to the fact that the movies today are acting as a dominant force in helping to create new American music and in providing a voice by which this music can make itself heard by America's millions. Mr. Taylor, I think we'd all like to hear an example of this new American music. Well, Mr. Fiedler has promised us just that. Now, we're going to hear the New England symphonette written for the picture Time Out of Mind by Nicholas Rocha and Mario Castelluovo Tedesco, as interpreted for us by a 60-piece symphony orchestra conducted by Arthur Fiedler. All right, Arthur, any time you're ready. Ready, please. All right, gentlemen, this time's the beginning, all the way through. Bring them the symphonette. All right, sir. All right, sir. All right, sir. All right, sir. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End