He does not merely tolerate. He respects his neighbor and so compels respect for others. His denunciation of bigotry is among the most important of his life. He has pointed out that the very word bigotry, in its old French connotation, meant one who did not love his country. And that is true in America today. Here in this precious land of ours, we who cherish constitutional liberty are almost alone in a devastated and unhappy world. With victory and a war for freedom just behind us, we find the very essence of that victory denied in nation after nation. We find the cause of human dignity still be legal. The struggle for justice, for freedom, and for individual opportunity and the rights of man goes on and on through the century. This cause, the best of all the world, has found a champion in France's cardinal style. The benefit of those who may have tuned in late, no doubt you recognize the voice of the governor of the state of New York, and the people of our great states. I am authorized specifically to speak here tonight on behalf of the assembly of the state of New York, and I bear here a joint resolution. The state of New York, in Albany, February 18, 1946, in the civilian. Whereas New York State is being honored by the elevation of one of her most distinguished citizens, Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, to the cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. And whereas Cardinal Spellman has rendered many years of distinguished service to God, church, and country, and is admired and loved by the people of this state and nation, regardless of race, creed, and color. Whereas Cardinal Spellman served with great zeal, energy, and distinction throughout World War II as Vicar General of the Armed Forces of the United States. Now, therefore, be it resolved that on this happy occasion the legislature of the state of New York express to Cardinal Spellman the felicitations and best wishes of the people of the state of New York, and be it further resolved that a copy of this resolution, suitably encroached, be transmitted to Cardinal Spellman. By order of the Assembly, Anseli B. Bortowski, clerked. In Senate, and juried in without amendment, William S. King, clerked. Thank you. I have one good one. Your Eminence, we of New York are proud of you, proud to be able to call you a citizen of the Empire State. We shall always, no matter what our faith, listen to you with respect and appreciate your rare combination of gifts. We shall always have confidence in your loyalty to American principles, the principles you express in these beautiful lives. O God, bless America with thy shielding grace. Lest we become a nation without light, our eyes turn from thee. A nation without light, our soul sundered from thee. A nation without love, our hearts forgetting thee. Let all nations know that our justice comes from thy spirit, our mercy from thy heart, our wisdom from thy mind, our victory from thy strength. Governor of the State of New York, the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey, has just concluded his remarks in the civic reception to France's Cardinal Spellman, here at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City. We hear the organ of the Metropolitan that has participated in so many great musical events, and the Governor himself is receiving quite an ovation from the audience here, in line with his beautiful remarks on this historic occasion in the Metropolitan. A stage that is indeed historical in the many events that have emanated from its sacred precincts, and its great contribution artistically and otherwise to the City of New York. Ms. Dragunet is taking her position before the microphones. In a few moments we will hear the next feature in the program. This is John S. Burke, the presiding chairman of this evening's festivities. Now, along through this door, it will be a part of theunting chair of the Navy. We see here in the drama that we have been there, with the村 of the Navy, this is currently been Experimental으 których I think it hele here in desde 2015...终 거 ftção! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Burke, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Griar, General Hannigan, and Senior Keegan, Mrs. McDonald, and my dear friends. I am very grateful to the Governor, to the Mayor, and the Postmaster General for their gracious words. I thank Senior Keegan, and Mrs. McDonald, and John Burke for their generous greetings. I appreciate the presence and the singing of Miss Dragonette and the Cathedral Choir. I ask Mr. Hannigan to convey my gratitude and expression of it to our President for his greetings. I am very happy to be back in New York, more happy than I can express. And I can assure you that the greatest happiness of any trip, and I feel confident in that matter, is the joy of returning to one's home. And on my many trips, I have been in many unexpected places, but in my most fantastic dreams, dreams I never expected to be on the stage of the Metatrolon Opera House. That indeed is fantastic, though. That indeed is fantastic. But happiness, as used nowadays, is a very relative period. And we Americans really do not appreciate our happiness unless we can, through some way, know of the unhappiness of many other people. Rights of bluetooth and her country. Congratulations. We have the joy of and of the отдых and on the stand-up of your life, and the emptiness who sineth wrap your mind then and finalize. Like hebrewing heads! Principal hums in them who sensualness. We have God and Laoggeria are cruel! O We'll come and find the place where I am lying. And hear and say I love anywhere for me. And I shall give myself to dread all the pain. And all I pray will once be for thee. For you will beg and tell me that you love me. And I shall speak in peace until your heart will be. The Ancient London Derriere was sung by the Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. It is a number of number of children through the years, and there are two siblings now. I believe they are not the same through the years. The Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. The Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. The Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. And Mr. Ravet, it's been a long time. The Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. The Choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral. And if I lay on its true, my hand May I be thee, who ever goes for thee Turn high the chief of the victory May soon and round against the hope for thee And share each some of thee O thee behaves not as DBA But wives 활al His law is unwavering in this draught.... ..i face and theHum . It is an mg andle ... …it's coming and moving of the day... ..and on a 거의 started doom! Forflanzen can only be found on site, My family Righter, says belief Toleroy,иф whatains can only be found But not only for a thousand thousandc speeches but for a thousand thousand Ho Chi phunertam, listed in the Loox High Friday. The death of the choir of St. Patrick's Cathedral in the two selections, the ancient London Derriere and the Finlandia to the words of Through the Years. Third one is the Clabetty. Now in just a moment, this is John Hensburg. The most common common. Well, there is another musical selection.ת Oswald's ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
