Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Helping a vet to help himself is exactly what volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild do. They visit lonely vets and VA hospitals weekly to work right at their bedside, teaching them to put on their own radio shows, fill their morale, fill their lonely hours with creative recreation. Yes, the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild truly helps a vet to help himself. And you too can help, cause... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Helping a vet to help himself is exactly what volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild do. They visit lonely vets and VA hospitals weekly to work right at their bedside, teaching them to put on their own radio shows, fill their morale, fill their lonely hours with creative recreation. Yes, the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild truly helps a vet to help himself. And you too can help, cause... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. And one way to help a lonely vet along the road back to health is by giving now to the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. VHRG is a non-profit volunteer organization of radio professionals who visit VA hospitals weekly. Teach vets to create and produce their own hospital broadcasts. Many more lonely, sick vets can be helped by the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild if you will give. And give generously now, because... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help... Ladies and gentlemen, Here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. And one way to help a lonely vet along the road back to health is by giving now to the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. VHRG is a non-profit volunteer organization of radio professionals who visit VA hospitals weekly. Teach vets to create and produce their own hospital broadcasts. Many more lonely, sick vets can be helped by the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild if you will give. And give generously now, because... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help... Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Yes, many a handicapped vet feels the going is pretty rugged after months or years in bed. That's why weekly visits from the volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild are mighty important to vets and VA hospitals. VHRG teaches them to put on their own radio shows. It's fun, and it gives a guy confidence in himself. And I know, because I'm one of those vets. That's why I'm asking you to help the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild, because... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Address Veterans Hospital Radio Guild, Box 1350, that's Box 1350, Grand Central Station, New York. Help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Yes, many a handicapped vet feels the going is pretty rugged after months or years in bed. That's why weekly visits from the volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild are mighty important to vets and VA hospitals. VHRG teaches them to put on their own radio shows. It's fun, and it gives a guy confidence in himself. And I know, because I'm one of those vets. That's why I'm asking you to help the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild, because... Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Address Veterans Hospital Radio Guild, Box 1350, that's Box 1350, Grand Central Station, New York. Help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Yes, thousands of hospitalized vets do feel they're on the shelf. But not those lads who are visited weekly by volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. This non-profit organization of radio professionals teach lonely vets to put on their own bedside radio programs. Gives them hours of fun and creative recreation. Thousands more can be helped along the road back to health, too, if you will give now to the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station, New York. Help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Yes, thousands of hospitalized vets do feel they're on the shelf. But not those lads who are visited weekly by volunteer members of the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. This non-profit organization of radio professionals teach lonely vets to put on their own bedside radio programs. Gives them hours of fun and creative recreation. Thousands more can be helped along the road back to health, too, if you will give now to the Veterans Hospital Radio Guild. Because nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York, help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Ladies and gentlemen, here is a message for you. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. So help a vet to help himself. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York, help a vet to help himself. New York, help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Nobody wants to be on the shelf, so help a vet to help himself. Send your money to Box 1350, Grand Central Station. New York, help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself. Help a vet to help himself.
