The program Music America Loves, regularly presented at this time, will be heard on WNYC-FM, 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial, so that your city station may bring you, transcribed this morning from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Commodore, the opening session of a conference on Women in the Defense Decade, presented by the American Council on Education, which is meeting in New York City today and tomorrow. This morning, the speakers to be heard are Arthur S. Adams, President of the American Council on Education, who will speak on the background and aims of the conference, Oliver C. Carmichael, President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, speaking on an evaluation of women's education, and Althea K. Hottle, who will take up Women's Education, New Needs in Our Time. Mrs. Hottle is the Dean of Women at the University of Pennsylvania. To open this general session of the American Council on Education's Conference on Women in the Defense Decade, here is the presiding chairman, Mary Donlon, chairman of the New York State Workman's Compensation Board. The conference on Women in the Defense Decade to discuss what women's attitudes, philosophy, and activity should be in the next 10 years is now opened. This conference, as you know, has been sponsored by the American Council on Education. And to tell you what the American Council on Education hopes this conference may achieve, I present to you its president, a distinguished educator, a distinguished captain in the United States Navy during World War II, and now the president of this organization of colleges and universities in the United States, Dr. Arthur S. Adams. Madam Chairman, members of the conference, it is impossible for me adequately to express the gratitude I feel as I stand before you this morning. Gratitude to the staff for the tremendous job it has done in making the plans for this conference. Gratitude to your chairman and the members of the executive and general committees who have given so much time, energy, and thought to the planning of this conference. Gratitude to the president of the president of the United States, The conference of the president of the in the United States, California, and the community of the president of the United States, The conference came into being as the result of a number of incidents which occurred last year. A number of conferences were held, both by the American Council on Education and by other agencies, on the manpower policy question. These conferences sometimes developed a good deal of heat. I hope that they also developed light. At any rate, in the course of the conferences, as the discussions went forward with great vigor, always some alert woman in the audience would rise, be recognized by the chairman and then say, how can you possibly give attention to the manpower policy of this nation in these turbulent times when you leave out of consideration more than half of the population? Well, the first time this happened, I regret to say that it passed by. But when it happened again and again, we at the council began to say to ourselves, I believe there's something in this. And so, as we had communications from all over the country pointing up the fact of our national situation and what were we going to do about it in particular reference to woman power, the plans for this conference were initiated. One of the phrases used at the outset was that this was to be a conference for women, planned and executed by women. But as we went along, we realized that this was a divisive sort of approach. that we did not at the council wish to do something for women, we wished to do something with women. In your program this morning is an altogether admirable statement by your chairman, which points up this fact with great succinctness. She uses the phrase which appeals so strongly to me that we're talking about women as people. This seems to me to be a most important consideration. This is no time for the conference having the effect of setting up another special interest group. We all have altogether too many special interest groups now, each one striving and bickering with the other to get a little more for itself, no matter what it costs somebody else. No, this certainly is not an objective of this conference. Our purpose, rather, is to see what we can do to build connections of mutual support between the activities of women, the activities of men, and more especially, the activities of people. I trust, in fact, I'm confident that this theme will dominate the deliberations of this conference. The question might well be asked, how do women's attitudes and activities affect affairs of national concern? One great magazine has already answered that question in its advertising, never underestimate the power of a woman. but I think, perhaps, if we give attention to practical matters, we know very well that it is vitally important that women, each woman, understands our national situation, understands the problems that face our nation, and that she governs her daily conduct in the light of that knowledge. We do not aim here to set forth glittering, high ideals so far lost in the stars that they're utterly divorced from the realities of day-to-day living. Let me be specific. every young man who goes into the service has his attitude of mind with respect to such service determined in large part by the conversations he has had with his mother, with his wife, or with his sweetheart. You know this to be true. If wife, mother, and sweetheart view his service solely as a burden imposed upon their family group, can it be expected that the young man can come to the full realization of what his responsibilities, what his obligations, what his privileges are as a member of the armed services as well as he might otherwise? Again, in the field of everyday economics, there is a fine dividing line between spending in a reckless inflationary way and hoarding. It's a little difficult to determine where that line is. But either is not in the national interest. we are in a national situation which is different from any that this country has ever faced before. We are a great people to go all out. If a challenge is presented to us as a nation, we respond to it with vigor and we take pride in the fact of our strength and our zest. we are in the times. But this isn't that kind of a situation. I'm not going to use the word times of tension nor uneasiness nor any of the others that you've heard. I'm just going to call them in these times. You know very well what these times are. They need no adjectives of mine. In these times, we're under pressure from all sides. And it is necessary that we maintain a stable discipline to the end that doubt and uncertainty and fear and self-concern shall be eradicated to the maximum degree possible in our national thinking. As you review your program, you find eight sections which have been established. we hope to cover the total field of national problems and of women's interests. It is especially gratifying and delightful to me to note the range of interests represented by the speakers, by the panel consultants, and by you. This, I think, gives us assurance that this is a participating conference. This is your conference. And as such, it not only gives a privilege, but also imposes a responsibility. The speakers, the panel consultants, the staff, are not here to tell you what to do. they are here, I take it, to help you work out those conclusions, that blueprint, if you please, which you think is most suitable, most promising, and likely to be productive in determining the role of women in the activities of the next decade or more. I'm struck with the fact that we have in this group national figures in government, industry, business. We also have graduates of colleges of last year and next June participating in these affairs. leaders. We have people from positions of heavy managerial responsibility to those who are concerned with artistic expression, a very personal and individualized thing. Who is to say which is the more important? Certainly we do not wish to make any comparisons whatever. We feel that all of these activities have an important bearing. There is no hierarchy of values in this program. It is designed to be a cross-section of American national interests and a cross-section of American geography in order that all possible points of view may be reflected in what we discuss and do here today and tomorrow. now with respect to the actual conduct of the meeting I wish to point out that I've just been talking about participation and I'm sure you would agree with me that because of the crowded schedule it would be extraordinarily helpful if you will participate in making these arrangements work. For one thing we'd like very much after this one meeting to start all sessions exactly on the minute. For another we recognize that because of physical limitations it was necessary today to hold some section meetings in the Biltmore and Roosevelt hotels. These hotels and these rooms may be reached without going outdoors and we'll try to do everything possible to give you information as to how to reach them most directly and conveniently. But more particularly we want to talk about the actual conduct of the section meetings themselves. And in this respect I want to reiterate again our desire that every one of you feel that this is your conference. That you do have some views to express and that you express them and that those views count. Only in this measure will we achieve the objective we so earnestly seek. all of the matters I've been talking about up till now have to do with objectives of the conference which have to do with thought and action. What makes all this worthwhile? I would be remiss in my responsibility did I not take this opportunity to point out that it is faith that makes this worthwhile. Faith in our country. Faith in the principles for which our country stands and notably faith in the importance of the individual. This faith has a religious quality, a spiritual quality. There would be no point in undertaking activities of this sort. Did we not have the inner conviction that what happens here will count? That it is a part of the great plan. And so I close on this note. That we are here to see what more we can do to bring about in this nation and in the world unity, not uniformity. Thank you. Dr. Adams. It is no part of your chairman's duty to make a speech to you. But I am charged by the executive committee with two pleasant responsibilities. First, in their behalf to welcome you to this conference and to warmly second Dr. Adams' invitation for for your participation in the various sections so that the findings of those sections may be useful for the guidance of women and women's education during the next ten years. And second, I have been asked to tell you a little of what the executive committee for its part hopes that this conference may accomplish and why these women have been interested in working for it. One hundred and three years ago, a small band of courageous women and a few even more courageous men met in historic conference in the then little village of Seneca Falls in rural New York. The world they lived in presented problems to leadership that these men and women earnestly sought to resolve. There were injustices they set themselves to correct. It was a different world in 1848 from this world of 1951. Then the everyday horizon was not far beyond the distance a horse and buggy could travel. California, represented here by so many delegates, had not yet been ceded to the United States by Mexico and it would be several months before the discovery of gold in 1849 would give impetus to the settling of the West. Human slavery was an established American institution. Women had no political or economic status and almost no educational opportunities. The world has changed since then. The horse and buggy frontier has been banished by around the world air travel. Human slavery as a legal institution went out here in America with the Emancipation Proclamation. Women go to college almost as easily as their brothers do. Women own property. They have professions and jobs. They can vote and hold a public office. Legal recognition of women's rights as people has been all but finally won. The conflict has shifted to new ground. Now it is the battle to gain acceptance of women's responsibilities as people. Just as women themselves in 1848 were the major obstacle to their own emancipation, so now in 1951 it is women themselves who too often hold back women from assuming the full responsibilities for which education and the franchise have fitted them. The conflict of ideologies in our generation makes great demands on all people. Even those behind the iron curtain must fight and die, but their lives are all they have to lose. We, a free people, may also lose our freedom. That is our grave risk. Someone must keep alive the experience of living under free institutions even while the struggle goes on, lest we finally win an empty victory. That is what this conference is to discuss. 30 women whose names you have read in the roster of executive committee membership earnestly join you in exploring what the role of college and university educated women, indeed of all women, should be in this defense decade. Educate a man, and you have educated a lawyer, a doctor, an engineer, banker, or even a statesman. Educate a woman, someone has said, and you have educated a family. To that we now add, educate a woman and you have educated a family and a community. And if you educate enough women, you have educated enough communities, and therefore the nation. The decline of public morals shocks women because it ominously shatters their homes and families with the vile conditions that are tolerated when public morals sink low. Within the week, we have seen a law enforcement officer elected by the people clap into jail without warrant here in America, a woman who dared to tell the state crime commission what she had seen and knew. Within the week, we have seen a confessed gambling king walk off the witness stand because he did not dare to tell the court and jury what he had seen and knew about law enforcement officers. In Gary, Indiana, the women finally woke up to the realization that their homework extended to every place their children and families went in their community. They then accepted a greatly expanded concept of women's work. Gambling, dope peddling, the dark and dirty city streets where crime and disease are nurtured, all these and more have flourished in more places than Gary, under political protection because women still want to believe that this is none of their business. We of the Executive Committee think it is women's business to make their communities healthy, happy, and contented places in which to rear a family. We think this calls for the best that women have of intelligence, interest, tact, patience, and effort. We think it calls for all the talents everyone can muster. This conference is about just that. The home, citizenship, health and welfare, the armed forces, production, education, the best use of our leisure, and the control of everyday economics that, as Dr. Adams has said, underpin the national economy, all these are facets of women's responsibilities and opportunities in the defense decade. They are the challenge of this conference. to women leaders of a free society, that they may keep it free. And now to get down to the real business of the conference and the presentation of the keynote addresses that will set the stage for the section discussions, questions, we have two distinguished speakers. It seemed appropriate that first of all, we should look backward, at least a little, to see what women's education had been and how it had developed and evaluated. And for that, we sought a distinguished academic, scholar, and historian. and he graciously consented to take this assignment and to be with us this morning as he is. He is the president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. He has been a member of various distinguished commissions. He at one time served as the president of a great southern university, Vanderbilt, and he now, I am happy to say as a New Yorker, is chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York. I present to you to discuss women's education and evaluation, Dr. Oliver C. Carmichael. Dr. Carmichael. Madam chairman, members of the conference, very glad to be here and have a part in your program, but I don't know quite by what right I'm here. It is true that I had an early experience and as president of a college for women. I'm sure that doesn't qualify me. The reason I'm here is that my good friend Arthur Adams and his committee made a call on me. I felt I hardly had any right to refuse. They even selected my subject for me so that if you don't like what I say, blame it on them. I'm really overwhelmed with the sense of my own rashness in accepting. The speaker, the presiding officer, asked me a few moments ago how long I was going to speak, and I said 21 minutes, and she immediately called for a stopwatch. I may get stopped before I get quite through. Reminded of the story that Mark Twain told about long speeches. You remember he said he went to hear a great speaker on a great cause, and at the end of 15 minutes he determined to give him, to give $50 to the cause. At the end of 35, he cut that down to $25. When the pastor had it at the end of 50 minutes, he took $10 off the plate. And I tried to remember that when it came to length of speeches. Someone asked me if I was going to tell a joke on this occasion. I said I was afraid to. I thought this wasn't a very good audience. But I was also reminded of the man who thought he was a humorist and wanted very much to be. he wrote out a number of the very best jokes he could and sent it to a humorous magazine. And he waited very anxiously for the reply. In about two weeks he got a letter with the postmark, or rather the name of the company, and he was very much excited. He opened the letter with trembling hands and read this. He said, we received your communication, we've looked over your paper. A great many of the jokes we have seen before, some of them we haven't seen yet. And I'm always afraid of that, and I begin to tell jokes. The story of higher education of women is a puzzling chapter in educational history. It's not the purpose of this paper to recount it or to attempt an explanation. But since any appraisal of the present requires some knowledge of the past, a brief background statement is necessary. It's an odd fact that Harvard was 200 years old before the first college for women was established, and that co-education was a still later development. Wesleyan in Georgia, Macon, Georgia, founded in 1836, antedated by one year, the admission of women to Oberlin College, the first co-educational institution. Thus, in enlightened America, men had 200-year start on women in the matter of college opportunities. The finishing school for girls was the forerunner of the college for women, but persisted long after its advent. Its connotation today is that of shallowness and artificiality. It did, however, have one virtue. It sought to improve the manners and raise the tone of social life and to prepare the young woman for her role as head of the household. It was a more realistic goal than simply that of proving that women were equal to men in their ability to master language, mathematics, and philosophy, which, as you know, was dominant in some of the early women's colleges. The heyday of the finishing school extended toward the middle of the 19th century, when agitation for real colleges became serious. then several institutions had already developed those standards were low. Mr. Woody suggests in his two-volume treatise on the higher education of women that Mary Sharp College in Tennessee, established in 1852, was the first to attempt a curriculum comparable to Harvard and Yale, but it was short-lived, expiring in 1896. Though there are several claimants toward the distinction of being the first real college among those still surviving, the alumni of Vassar would probably insist, and most of us would likely agree, that their alma mater really has that distinction. Its founding in 1865 was followed in rapid succession by Wells, Wellesley, Smith, Brennard, Mills, Goucher, and the elevation of Mount Holyoke to college status in 1888. Thus, within a little more than 20 years, the stars in the galaxy of women's higher education appeared. Concurrently, co-education was expanding rapidly. Before the end of the period, five state universities had been founded as co-educational institutions, and six others had opened their doors to women. In passing, it's interesting to note that all state universities now admit women to some, if not all, its divisions. Another little known chapter in the history of women's education was written in the two decades following the great development of the colleges for women in the Northeast, and the expansion of co-education in the Middle West. That was the founding of state-supported colleges for women in the southern area. Between 1885 and 1910, Mississippi, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Texas, and Oklahoma, in the order name, established such institutions, all of which are still thriving. One is now incorporated in the state university system. Another has opened its doors to men. The other six still operate under their original charters with independent boards of trustees. institutions. These institutions are unique in two respects. They are the only state-supported independent colleges for women in the United States, if not in the world. Note I said state-supported. Quite well aware of Hunter College, a wonderful institution in this city, supported by taxes, but a city-supported institution. And of the state college for women, but it is a part of Rutgers and does not have an independent board. In the second place, their programs originally were largely technical and professional in character and have retained that flavor, though each now has a liberal arts program as well. This has social implications of some significance. in the beginning, they sought to provide for women largely what the land-grant colleges provided for men, though they have not fully retained that character in recent years. perhaps the distinctive virtue of this development was the effort to build a program specifically designed to meet the needs of women, as they saw it. The curriculum was not patterned after that of the men's colleges, which was largely true of women's colleges established earlier. Though these new institutions may not have been highly successful in achieving their goals, they did establish the principle that higher education should take into account the needs of its students in building the curriculum. The effects of the example have been observable in a variety of institutions over the past few decades, though not to the extent that one might have hoped. As a quick summary of the foregoing discussion of the backgrounds, it might be of interest to attempt a thumbnail sketch of the present status of women's opportunities and the extent to which they have taken advantage of them. First of all, the fight that began about a century ago to provide more adequately for the forgotten half of youth was highly successful. One after the other, the doors of established institutions were opened, and new ones were established until today, according to the handbook issued by the American Council, 55 more colleges are open to women than to men. The fact that within the last few years, women's colleges have begun to admit men indicates that something of a reaction must have set in. At least the imbalance of 100 years ago is largely redressed. There is, however, another side to the coin. As of the fall of 1950, according to the Office of Education, only 42% as many women as men were enrolled in our colleges and universities, whereas in 1900, the enrollment of women in these institutions was 56% that of men. Of course, the large number of veterans present on the campuses a year ago accounts largely for this difference, but before accepting that as an adequate explanation, it's well to remember that at no time during the war did the number of women students equal that of the men on the campuses of the country. I know you might see another figure, but if you take into account the army boys that were on the campus, there were more men in the very worst part of the war, more men on the college campuses than there were women. At no time were there more women. Moreover, if both men and women veterans are subtracted from the total enrollments of a year ago, it will be found that only 70% as many women as men were enrolled in the institutions of higher learning, whereas for 1930, that figure was 77%. Thus it is clear that the education of young women is still being neglected as compared with that of the men and that for the past 20 years it has not held its own. This has social implications of some significance. In view of what our chairman has said about educating a woman, you educate a family and the community, whereas when you educate a man, it's mostly the individual that's affected. The reasons for the lag in higher education of women are manifold. Many of them center around the fact already mentioned that it was 200 years after the founding of Harvard before it began, but that does not account for the falling off relatively of the college enrollment of women in the past 20 years. Whether that represents a trend or not, and I am not at all certain, it is still difficult to explain why there should be so large a differential in the matter of college attendance between the sexes. Instead of attempting to analyze the problem in all its aspects, it might be well for the purposes of this paper simply to raise the question whether the failure of college to meet the needs of women may not be a principal cause, even though not consciously recognized. Citing the criticisms of our present system as it relates to the higher education of women and appraising their merits would be one way of throwing light on the question. Another would be to take a look at contemporary society with a view to analyzing certain rather fundamental problems, the solution of which must, in the nature of the case, be the chief responsibility of women. With these facts in mind, perhaps the adequacy of the present educational program may be more easily determined. At this point, I am going to express what has been built up in my mind over the past few years. I am not expecting you to agree with it. At least I am expecting considerable disagreement with it. I should be quite satisfied if it does result in stimulating some thought about what seems to me a really important problem. A chief concern of those interested in social progress is the state of public manners and morals. Recent revelations of low standards in high places, of shady dealings of organized crime and corruption, and of the entanglement of youth in the web of corrupt and dishonorable practices, have shocked thoughtful Americans as few episodes in our history. The moral and spiritual disintegration which they symbolize call for action on the part of the home, the school, and the church. The home is perhaps, as the chief conservator of our cultural and spiritual heritage, the one agency that has the largest share of responsibility. It has traditionally set the tone of our common life. It has influenced standards of conduct, I believe, more than all other factors combined. When religion exercised a more dominant influence in American life than it does today, its effectiveness stemmed largely from the devotion of women who made it a central feature of child training and the basis of the home atmosphere. It was the unifying factor in home and community life. Science has produced no substitute for it. Education in general has taken no adequate account of that fact, nor of the consequent disintegration of home and family life. It is the responsibility of teachers and educational leaders to devise means of remedying the situation. The majority of teachers are women, and hence a special responsibility devolves upon them on that count. But an even more cogent reason for expecting women to take the leadership in this area is their traditional role in conserving the best elements in our heritage. Nowhere in the higher education of women, it seems to me, is this fact sufficiently emphasized. Now another problem closely related to the one just discussed is that of enabling society to adjust to the rapid changes imposed by an advancing science and technology. These two factors have transformed a rural people into a nation of city dwellers, an independent people into a citizenry three-fourths of whom are employees of others, and a self-reliant people proud of their individualism into a society which relies more and more on collective action to achieve its goals. Modern gadgets such as the automobile, the airplane, moving pictures, the radio, now television, have affected profoundly the habits and outlook of every citizen, young and old, rich and poor, learned and ignorant. No one has taken the trouble to assess the effect of these changes on the average man and the maladjustments resulting therefrom. Hence no effort has been made to devise the means of adjusting to them. The result is a vast disequilibrium, instability and insecurity. Going over some records recently, I found this. About one out of every three hospital beds throughout the country is occupied by mental patient. And the proportion of mentally disturbed patients is constantly increasing. The phenomenal growth of college and university enrollments, which we point to with pride, is rivaled only by that of the population and institutions for the mentally disturbed. Now these are facts which we want to deplore and then to dismiss. They can't be dismissed with impunity. They call for consideration, for study and research, and for action based upon findings. A people that has resolved the mystery of nuclear fission, harness the energy of the atom, can surely find the key to the prison house of social maladjustment, the bane of modern society, if only their efforts were directed toward the search. But who will take the lead? Who will plan the strategy of attack on this fundamental prop? In the home and at the office, in school and in the community, women have traditionally tied it up after the men. They've put the house in order, rearranged the furniture, and restored equilibrium when men have left affairs in disarray and confusion. On that analogy, our best hope of bringing order out of our modern chaos is the leadership of women. The machinations of men, their scientific discoveries and technological inventions, have produced our current difficulties. On whom are we to rely if women, with their intuitive insight and instinctive interest in restoring order, fail to assume their traditional role? Seriously, I believe the great defect of modern education is that it fails to deal realistically with the central problem of determining the nature of the current maladjustment in human relations and of seeking means of amelioration. Those concerned with the higher education of women have in this field, I believe, a particularly promising opportunity to make a basically important contribution. The present curriculum in colleges and universities for both sexes reflects little awareness of that fact. Len White, in his little volume Educating Our Daughters, suggests that one of our great tasks is to make higher education family-minded. He points out that the monastic background and direction of higher education over many centuries symbolized today in the academic paraphernalia the cap, the gown, and the hood has resulted in the neglect of the family in the world of scholarship and this, he avers, has had a damaging effect on the unconscious attitudes and value judgments of both men and women. He declares that a sense of family values should permeate the study of literature, history, philosophy, and every other academic discipline. in support of his argument he cites the example of family solidarity among the Chinese and its relation to their educational philosophy. He suggests that the Confucian ethic centers on the problems of polarity between the individual and the family, whereas with us it centers on the relation of the individual to the state. It's an interesting point worthy of thought. This provocative idea is worthy of consideration. Basic to the confusion in American life is the instability of the family. The unprecedented divorce rate involving, as it does, not only contract parties, but in most cases children as well, has a deeply disturbing effect upon the morale of every segment of our society. And yet, in our entire educational system, this fundamental problem isn't adequately treated. There are, to be sure, a multitude of courses in home economics in high schools and colleges, but they deal mainly with food and its chemistry, dressmaking and textiles, artistic expression in clothing and decoration and so forth and so forth. The problems of family solidarity, of relations between the different members of the family, as well as the crucial importance importance, the intellectual and moral and spiritual atmosphere in the home and family life. Neglect. Here again, if much needed reforms are ever to be effected, the initiative will almost certainly be taken by women. A crusading spirit reminiscent of the suffrage days may be required. But if women insisted upon a fundamental emphasis on the family in the curriculum of every college in the land, the demand would shortly be met. Women's colleges no longer need to prove the equality of their students in matters intellectual. They have demonstrated their superiority long ago. And I speak advisedly, having been president not only of a women's college, but of a co-educational university. Perhaps their next task is to pioneer in a new kind of education designed to emphasize moral and spiritual values and how we need it in higher education, all forms of higher education. On the philosophy and techniques of adjustment in an increasingly complex and rapidly changing society and the means of exalting home and family life. These are the problems of human relations that must be solved, really must be solved, if stability and progress are finally to be achieved. Vigorous leadership in the women's colleges would doubtless influence the outlook of other institutions and in the end affect the entire program of higher education in this country. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Carmichael. I hope you now all agree with the committee that it acted wisely in dealing firmly with Dr. Carmichael in the matter of accepting our invitation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Because this is the first session, we have a few late registrants and I'm just going to give you a few announcements, if I may, Mrs. Pottle, while the latecomers are coming into the room. Dr. Adams has asked me to say to you that those who have elected membership in a section are supposed to stay with the section and for a sound reason that you are expected to contribute to the work of that section and you may do that only by being present at all its sessions. I want to call your attention also to this sheet that has been distributed to you. It has to do with the very interesting social feature with some educational implications planned for your enjoyment this evening and sponsored by the three great media of mass education who have joined in contributing the discussion program for the luncheon today. If you have not received your ticket of admission to the Center Theater for this evening, you should go to the desk outside and get it. There will be no admission except with the ticket. And I am urged by the representatives of the motion picture television and radio industries who have arranged this affair to warn you also to have your badge because having gotten in with your ticket, there is some arrangement by which you can stay in only if you have your badge. It's a little subtle and I don't quite understand it but I'm told it's so. Now to project our attention to the present where Dr. Carmichael has so eloquently brought us and to turn our thoughts to the future, we have a distinguished woman. She is the immediate past national president of the American Association of University Women and has represented American women in the Federation of University Women in Europe. She is the dean of women at the University of Pennsylvania. She will talk with us on women's education, new needs in our time. Dean Althea K. Hottle. Mrs. Hottle. Dr. Carmichael, in addition to giving us an evaluation of the background of women's education, has also projected some very important thoughts with reference to the new needs in the education of women. and let us assume that my contribution this morning is simply taking up where he left off and is just moving on a bit. I'm currently involved at the University of Pennsylvania in freshman week and we have been endeavoring to tell our freshmen and to hopefully draw from them what is important in the education of women. And I am reminded of that dean who had done a similar thing a few years ago and after it was all over and she thought she'd been very successful in that freshman orientation program, when she talked to one of the freshmen about it and the freshman was trying to say how effective it had been and what she thought the opportunities were in the education of women and she said well it's pretty good what there is of it and then she felt a little embarrassed and she said oh I mean there's plenty of it such as it is. So that I suppose at this stage between the philosophies of various educators and others who are contributing to the thought of what the needs are in the education of women we might be in either one of those positions. It seems to me as a sociologist that the new needs in women's education are very closely linked as they always have been with what society requires and what it expects of people. Human activities are so numerous so greatly varied wants are unlimited but people do have a few basic needs and their food and their the production and the rearing of children their belief and their the welfare of the group and to my knowledge for at least the past 25,000 years people have been endeavoring to meet those needs in a variety of ways. We're living in a century and in an atmosphere that's far different from that in which our nation was set in operation. And so different are the times in which we find ourselves that there are many who feel that old ideals are completely outgrown and that new ones must take their places. Still others believe that if we repeat often enough the things that we've always done and if we resist any alteration to the institutions that carry out the things we think are important that then salvation is ensured. Personally I think both of those adequate attitudes are equally inadequate in the present situation and especially in the education of people. From an age of boundless unsettled areas and natural resources we're certainly in an age where we have to grapple with scarcity. And from an age of technological simplicity and a lack of communication and relative isolation of communities we've moved towards technological complexity that even the most highly educated can scarcely understand. And there's no longer even any isolation or privacy for the human being. And it seems to me some of our institutions do need some changing to meet that. And our times call therefore in my estimation for some change in the attitudes and the emphases and the perspective in education rather than a major revolution in subject matter. The value in a good and a creative and a rich life need not necessarily be redesigned nor should the standards of scholarly attainment necessarily be changed. But there is an increasing awareness that people must be more sensitive to the needs and the hopes of others and to the world in which we live. Out of the wars and the depressions of this century, women have emerged, as Dr. Carmichael has said, more as persons and with lives and action and activities of their own to live. And many of them have recognized their fears, spheres fundamentally are in the home but that they extend beyond the home and beyond their vocations into the community and that community is now the entire world. The freedoms that exist in nations for women are greatly related to the freedoms for all people in that nation. And it's difficult to generalize on the opportunities for women that are developing around the world because they vary based on national policies, based on religious and other cultural concepts. But there is no doubt that the great proportion of men and women in our world have the general concept that women are primarily responsible for maintaining their homes and supervising their families. Historically, we know there have been exceptional women through the ages who in addition have contributed to scholarly research, public affairs, to the business and social life of their communities and their nation. But this requires public sanction for women to be encouraged to step beyond such an accepted, important, and generally satisfying role, or into the professions or the businesses or activities in which men predominantly lead. And in this defense decade, with the deadly struggle for power that is ensuing, and when we're obliged to build armaments and increase our military forces, at the same time we're striving diplomatically, economically, and psychologically for peace. Simultaneously, we must maintain a high standard of our major institutions, such as our family, such as the schools, and the churches, and our government, and our normal ways of earning a living. It's my opinion that this staggering task of our nation will entail the requisitioning of the total ideas and skills of all of our people. And to accomplish this, men and women alike, in their educational and other experiences, must come to understand the art and the science of human relations, and they'll have to develop and appreciate and definitely respect and mutually use their similar and their different gifts to the fullest extent. Each will certainly need to sense the special abilities and the hopes and the aspirations of the other, and to recognize physiological differences and the actual limitations, not the assumed limitations that may accompany them. And men and women may very well ultimately have to recognize that in the great majority of areas, there no longer will be clearly defined classifications of what is now thought of as exclusively men's and women's work. And this means a different attitude, not only in the education of women, but in the education of men. The woman who plays a constructive role in American life in this defense decade and the years to come will not be that woman all loaded to go off and not knowing in which way to shoot. She'll not be that passive, discontented woman who spends endless days in shapeless dressing gowns. She will certainly be the woman who has a clarity of thinking based on sound experience and good judgment that will raise the cultural sights of her family, that will lead to the emotional and psychological stability of her husband as well as her children. And that she will be the woman who brings a wider range of vision to her business or profession. That she'll be the woman woman who is politically literate and does something about it to increase the stability of the democracy in this country. In other words, she is a person who has been trained to be a good member of society. And as we consider new needs in the education of women to meet these current and long-term requirements, we must think not only of higher education, as a member of a university faculty, I would urgently implore that in the lower grades we learn to read, write, and spell, and add. I think so much of the address that was given by Dr. William Rainey when he was president of the University of Chicago in the early 1900s. And he was addressing a group of freshman men. And he said, young gentlemen, you've come here in the hope of furthering your education. If you were to do this, it would be well for you to have some idea of what an educated human being is. Then you will know what to aim at here, what this institution exists to assist you to become. And then he continued, an educated man is a man who by the time he is 25 years old has a clear theory formed in the light of human experience down the ages of what constitutes a satisfying life and a significant life and who by the age of 30 has a moral philosophy consonant with racial experience. If a man reaches these ages without having arrived at such a theory, such a philosophy, then no matter how many facts he has learned or how many processes he has mastered, that man is an ignoramus and a fool, unhappy, probably dangerous. That's all. Good afternoon. Now, if I had the skill of President Rainey, I might be outlining an educational program in words as brief and succinctly as that. But basically, what he said to those freshman men in the early 1900s hold pertinently for women today. He might have been more explicit. He might have said that a liberal arts background plus humanistic studies plus religion and precise thinking are a proper discipline for the intelligent individual. And he might also have added, if he were talking to a faculty teaching women, that women's students must be taught with a breadth of understanding and that they must have subjects related to their experiences. That they must be aware of the complex responsibilities of women and feel the enthusiasm for meeting those responsibilities. In a six-year study, which we made at the University of Pennsylvania on the interests of our senior women students in the period from 1946 through 1951, we found that 88 and 7 tenth percent planned to work after college. And of these, 25 and 8 tenth percent for a long time career. We found, too, that about 47 and 8 tenth percent are hoping to do some graduate work at some time after college. And that 50 and 8 tenth percent consider they will combine marriage and employment. Most of those for a short period of time, but some also for a long-term period for a career. Now, we would certainly be missing our responsibilities if we didn't help these young people to meet the various facets of responsibility which they anticipate undertaking. Dean McIntosh, in her report as the dean of Barnard College for the academic years 48, 49, and 4950, states, and I quote, that a girl does not need courses in baby tending to prepare her for motherhood. But she definitely needs some spiritual orientation to that role, a philosophy which does not belittle the home as a place worthy of her best, and does not glorify the job as important beyond everything else. This orientation should, of course, be caught from parents, but it can also be caught from wise teachers, advisors, and administrators. Dean McIntosh continued, It can never be directly taught, but the awareness of its importance in the part of a superior faculty will go far toward creating the right atmosphere. End of that quotation. Women's educational programs today should certainly include greatly expanded courses which deal with the contemporary world, with personal relations, and with child psychology. Study of philosophy and religion are of primary importance. As Dr. Carmichael has said, women set the spiritual and the moral tones for their families and communities. A noted Oxford scholar, when asked what he considered the greatest barrier to world peace, said the limited perspective of the individual. The attitudes of people in two areas of the world illustrate very significantly this lack of perspective with which the world is confronted. The one comes from our own country, and it's a survey reported by Fortune about two years ago in which the American public was asked to state what it considered was important in the education of its young people. Everybody agreed that both men and women should be taught how to take care of themselves, and that is significant. But when it came to the education of women, I'm not going to deal with the education of men, that was a deplorable finding also. But when it came to the education of women, only 32% of the people felt it was important for them to learn how to get along with other people. Only 17% thought it was important for them to learn how to be good citizens in a democracy. And only 16% thought it was important for them to know anything about the rest of the world. And when we realized that 100% of the mothers in this country are women, and that 70% of the teachers are women, who ought to be teaching people how to get along with each other, to know something about how to be a good citizen in a democracy, and also to know something about the world, there's a great lag there somewhere in the ideas of the American public and what their women are doing. And then I think of the other. It was a country in Southeast Asia. So I was walking through the streets of the capital city of that country with a very distinguished woman scholar who had been all over the world, who'd had an opportunity to study in various parts of the world. And she had come back to her country. And as we walked down those streets, there were millions of refugees living on the streets, bathing and drinking from the same fountains, rampant with disease. And as I said to her, isn't this a shock to you as you've come back from countries with very different standards of living, and isn't it a great challenge? And she looked at me in amazement. And she said, why, no, it's always been this way. I wonder, too, with what eyes we look at our nation and whether we, too, may very well say it's always been that way. Maybe our women should understand a little bit more of the human misery of Asia and Africa and of Latin America. And maybe if we recognize what the chances are for people in other parts of the world to have a happy and healthy life, we might understand some of the issues of peace that are before us. If any one of us happened to be born on any one day with 200,000 other babies around the world, there'd be one in 20 that would be born in the United States. One in three would be white. One in four would be Christian. If we were born in the United States, we'd live longer than a year. If we were born in India, we'd have a little better than one to four chance of living a year and only a 50-50% chance of growing to maturity. If one was born colored in many places around the world, we'd be chronically sick. We'd be weak from hunger and disease. And one in four of us would have a chance to read. We'd live in a mud hut with a thatched roof without a chimney. We'd work on the land and we'd pay most of what we earned to the landlord. And we'd be in debt with an annual interest of about 30 to 100%. There are many of these people in the free nations that we propose to lead in a crusade against communism. And what millions of these people see in Russian communism are liberation from the landlord and the money lender. They see an end to misery Americans have never known. Tyranny doesn't scare them because there's always been tyranny in their countries. Now, this basic misery is the basic problem of the world. And it's important for women to understand these facts. But if we turn to the United States and see wherein other people around the world feel we're not making a reality of freedom, we might see that there would be serious criticism of our attitudes on differences in religion and race and on our minority groups. We're being scrutinized by the peoples of Asia. And while there may be a caste system in India, even though it's written off the books, and while there may be class distinctions in Europe and racial discrimination in Africa, we're the nation that is around the world challenging people to stand for democracy and therefore we become the most vulnerable. And in this struggle for freedom, our schools will play a very important role in intergroup relations. And I turn to the survey of the American Council on Education on intergroup relations in teaching materials. And that survey shows that the teaching materials used in our elementary and secondary schools do not present a clear and convincing picture to the pupils of the role of the individual in a democratic society and that person's duties and responsibilities. It presents very little about the nature of personality and growth and adjustment. And little is found about the role of ethnic, racial, or religious groups in American society. And that report continues that it would be very easy for a pupil to graduate from high school in the United States and never have studied these factors in group life. In the 1947 report of Raymond Fosdick when he was president of the Rockefeller Foundation, I think we have one of the clearest definitions of the problems of our time. He says, The issues of our time and of human destiny will be determined not at the physical but at the ethical and social level. Material power and dollars and military ascendancy may preserve us temporarily, but the dynamic tensions of our society can be relieved only by moral and social wisdom. And that kind of wisdom cannot be precipitated in a test tube, nor can it be won by the brilliant process of nuclear physics. The world of the future will be a world of diversity, held together by a conception of common interests. It will be a world in which many political faiths and economic creeds are tolerated, and widely differing points of view fertilize each other for the common good. Our challenge in this generation is to discover the common interests, the terrain of possible collaboration, the overlapping areas of curiosity and sympathy, of aspiration and mutual advantage that bind the human race together, regardless of ideologies or boundary lines. The search for these rallying points of unity, the development of new techniques, and areas of cooperative action where ideas and experience can be pooled and combined. This is the immediate task. This comes first. This is the foundation of the structure of a united society. These are the needs in the education of women, and as I close, I want to cite to you, very briefly, something I have never forgotten. Immediately after the war, a group of 200 students and faculty gathered in Guat, Switzerland, to see what they might do to put into practical application their social beliefs and their spiritual concepts. And they came from all over the world, enemy as well as allied nations. And we spoke many different languages, but we worked together, and despite great differences, we found some solutions. And on the last night of that conference, as we had a great bonfire, there at the foot of the Jungfrau, with the mountain peak reflected in the moonlight in Lake Toon, and with the glow of the embers on the faces of those young people, over here one heard a voice in French of what that conference had meant and what was important in the education of both men and women. And over here in Dutch and Spanish and Portuguese and Chinese and German and Japanese, and the conference ended with these words, Let me not shut myself within myself, nor dedicate my days to petty things. Let there be many windows in my life, the entrance to my heart, a door that swings, through which I go and come with eyes that smile, and others gladly come to me, that I may learn the thing worthwhile, the art of human hospitality. Save me from self-preferment that would seek its cloistered place, safe, sheltered from the strife, but purposeful and calm and sweet and sane. Lord, keep me in the living room of life. Thank you very much, Dean Hottel, for that inspiring setting for the section meetings of this conference. You have just heard transcribed the opening session of a conference on women in the defense decade, being held by the American Council on Education at the Hotel Commodore. This morning, under Miss Mary Donlan's chairmanship, the opening address on the background and aims of the conference was given by Arthur S. Adams, the president of the council. Next, Oliver C. Carmichael, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, spoke on women's education and evaluation. And finally, an address on women's education, new needs in our time, was given by Dean Althea K. Hottel of the University of Pennsylvania. The delegates to this conference, students and educators from colleges and universities all over the United States, are filing out of the ballroom to attend special meetings dealing with specific problems of women in the defense decade. At half past one this afternoon, all the delegates will gather once again, this time to hear discussed new tools in our time, education through television, radio, and motion pictures. Among the speakers at that time will be Telford Taylor, counsel to the Joint Committee on Educational Television, who will speak on television as an educational medium. Your city station will carry that session at 1.30 this afternoon. This conference on women in the defense decade, presented by the American Council on Education, is being broadcast by WNYC as another in its public service features. This is WNYC, New York City's own station. We now join WNYC FM listeners for the Midday Symphony already in progress. in power of the Como nemis, Hello, my dear. Thank you. Thank you. They'll be listening to you in the works now.