Good afternoon. From the steps of New York City Hall, your city station brings you the official reception to the President of Nicaragua, the Honorable Anastasio Somoza. The Chief Executive of the Central American Republic is to be greeted by Mayor Vincent Aram Pelletere and other city officials. Our distinguished guests and the Mayor have just been saluted by the combined bands of the Fire Department and also the Sanitation Department. And the Color Guard is here with us on the steps of City Hall, where we're waiting for the Honorable John A. Dykes, the Vice Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee. To open our ceremonies. Here's Mr. Dykes. The Fire Department band, under the direction of Deputy Chief George Briegel, will play the national anthems of the Republics of Nicaragua and the United States. The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the University of Nicaragua and the United States. The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the University of Nicaragua and the United States. The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the University of Nicaragua and the United States. The Fire Department band, under the dikecelles. The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the University of Nicaragua and the Interact admitance. In the 눈 Apostles Tribains. The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the souvenir. Lord! LLC? The Fire Department band, under the direction of the Division of the Division of the Municipalひゃ that has joined in due to the Federal Fire Department against the Navy. America was divided as paramedIC, games, you know lines. We honor today a man of exceedingly high position and of great distinction, His Excellency Anastasio Somoza, President of Nicaragua. His country is the largest of the Central American countries and a very friendly neighbor. On a trip to our country, he has honored our city by this visit. To officially welcome him and to award to him an appropriate scroll and the Medal of Honor of the City of New York, I now present to you the Mayor of our city, the Honorable Vincent R. Impellatera. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, New York City is happy today to extend its traditional warm welcome to the head of a great republic south of the Rio Grande, who has long been a staunch friend and ally of the United States. Our distinguished visitor is no stranger to our ways and customs, having pursued his own education in our country and having sons and daughters who receive their education here. His likes and dislikes even parallel ours because his country's great pastime, like our own, is baseball. As a matter of fact, the other day, while in our city, General Somoza had an occasion to witness one of our great baseball clubs, the New York Giants playing the St. Louis Cods. When he got up to the game, the Giants were behind. But with his rooting, in that time the Giants were four runs behind, by the time the ninth inning was over, General Somoza rooted the Giants on the victory. In his own capital city of Managua, he was a prime mover in providing for his people, a great baseball stadium seating 50,000 people. The man we honor today is a political leader in the best American tradition of advancing social welfare legislation for his people through better educational and housing facilities, road and highway construction, and modern mechanization of agriculture and industry. We welcome you, Your Excellency, for all of these reasons, but particularly because throughout your long political career, as Secretary of War of your country, as Minister Plenipotentiary of your nation to Costa Rica, as Undersecretary and Acting Secretary of State, and as President of Nicaragua since 1937, you have always demonstrated a genuine and sincere friendship for the people of the United States of America. We welcome you, Your Excellency, because under your guidance and leadership, your nation has adhered closely to our own policies affecting Pan-American solidarity and defense. And finally, we welcome you, Your Excellency, because you are joined with us and the other freedom-loving nations of the world in beating back communist aggression and oppression. It is my great privilege, in behalf of all the people of the City of New York, and as a token of the bonds of friendship that exist between your people and our people, to bestow upon you New York City's scroll for distinguished public service. May I read this scroll, Your Excellency? It reads as follows. I am a president of the United States of New York, I know all men by these presents that I, Vincent R. M. Pelletari, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service His Excellency Anastasio Somoza, President of the Republic of Nicaragua, whose fervent support of the inter-American system has repeatedly proven his solidarity and sincere friendship towards the United States of America and whose great contribution towards enriching and strengthening the ties of friendship traditionally established between our two countries merits the heartfelt gratitude and sincere appreciation of the people of the City of New York and also, Mr. President, as a symbol of the affection in which the people of the City of New York hold towards you, it's my pleasure to present to you the City's Medal of Honor. Mayor M. Pelletari has just presented New York City's Medal of Honor to our distinguished guest, Honorable Somoza, and they embrace each other in both Latin American and American custom, exchanging handshakes among the visitors here at the reception platform at City Hall Plaza. In a few moments, we will hear the response by Mr. Somoza to the mayor's address. The usual battery, the usual battery of news photographers is taking a little time now with the opposing the mayor. Mrs. Pelletari, our distinguished visitor today, Anastasio Somoza and Mrs. Somoza. More pictures now of Mr. Pelletari and Mr. Somoza. Incidentally, if you aren't out of the house today, it's one of the finest days we've had this year. Cool and pleasant, a wonderful June day. The police department glee club heralded it just a few moments ago, back before the festivities began, by playing June as bus not all over, and it certainly is. Mr. Somoza is just about ready now to make his response. First here is Mr. John Adykes. So that he may respond to the mayor, I now have the high honor of presenting to you His Excellency Anastasio Somoza, President of Nicaragua. Mr. President. Honorable Major Pelletari of New York, Mrs. Pelletari, Ladies and Gentlemen, I was educated in this country, so was my wife and my three children. My daughter is actually the wife of the Ambassador of Nicaragua in Washington. She has six children, all born in the United States. My second boy is graduated as an engineer from the University of Maryland. And the youngest one who is in the Army of Nicaragua now is graduated from West Point. So you see, this is my second country. I was not born here, but I feel very glad, very happy when I am in the United States. I feel at home here. And every time I go away, I feel homesick for the United States. Whenever I see that beautiful flag of the birds and stars, make me feel as happy as when I see my little but wonderful blue and white flag of Nicaragua. I feel very proud to say that the Nicaraguan people, the country of Nicaragua, and President Somoza are the best friends the United States have and will ever have in Latin America. Because we appreciate all the kindness, all the protection, all the help Uncle San has given us. And we are sincere to confess that we have received that help from this big brother of the United States who is always willing to help these small countries. and I, who are the most sincere friend of the United States, will say that even if I wasn't, I always say that America and the Western Hemisphere should be and must be together with the United States. Because we, especially the small countries, are sure and certain that as long as the United States lives as a free, a powerful country, we will be free. And in any case, the United States will disappear as a free, unpowerful country. Our fate will be to become a colony of any European or Asiatic nation. God will never permit that so we cannot live free and happy in the Western Hemisphere. ladies and gentlemen, the honor received by me today, I receive it in the name of my people and in the name of my country. Mayor Pelletary has done a wonderful demonstration. I want to congratulate him from the bottom of my heart from the wonderful job he has made in New York. I feel very close to him because during the last election in Nicaragua, I received the biggest majority of votes on anybody, any president I ever received in the past and I know he was elected in New York with the biggest votation ever registered in the history of the election of a mayor in New York. And I am very glad and very proud as his friend but I feel very close to him now to see all he's doing, he's paying back the popularity and all the friendship he received from the people of New York, doing all the progress and making New York City more beautiful every day. I am feeling so glad to see the progress of New York because I love this city, I love New York, I like New York, I like the Giants, I like the Dodgers and I like everything that means athleticism in this country and I, as I told him, New York is unique in the world. It's only one New York in the world and when I see it, how he keeps it so clean, so beautiful. My God, I was telling his beautiful wife going through those streets so clean and nice that you could sit down in the middle of the street and have your lunch and you feel as comfortable as you would in your own home. Major and Pelletary, I want to thank you a million times for the wonderful demonstration shown to me today, for this decoration of the city of New York which I always will carry with pride and honor as a remembrance of the biggest demonstrations ever given to me in New York by a wonderful mayor, a wonderful man, a wonderful citizen and a man who really have a heart. I love people like you, Mayor and Pelletary, because you're so human. I want to congratulate you and thank you. From the bottom of my heart this wonderful demonstration, this wonderful parade and permit me to congratulate your marvelous police force. Because when you see a bunch of soldiers like you have here, we Americans, we who belong to the Western Hemisphere, make us feel that we will never lose any war, that we will always win, that democracy and freedom will live forever and you must be sure that the whole continent will stick, always be, we must be and will be forever arm by arm with Uncle Sam. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I know I speak for everyone here when I say that we're sorry we do not have you as a full-time American citizen, but we're happy that Nicaragua is so ably led. we will now have some selections by the sanitation band which keeps, which is the department that keeps our streets so clean, Mr. Your Excellency, and the police glee club under the direction of Sergeant Edward Dillon. Thank you. The heads are up and the chests are out The arms are swinging in cadence count Sound off One, two Sound off Three, Four Canons count One, Two, Three Four Three, Four Left My Galloway Out West I Thought that army life was best Now she's someone else's wife and I'll be marching the rest of my life Sound off One, Two Sound off Three, Four Canons count One, Two, Three, Four Itty, Meaty, Mighty, Moe Let's go back and count some All Sound off One, Two Sound off Three, Four Canons count One, Two, Three, Four One, Two, Three, Four If I Take me Home The Captain Rides In a Jeep The Sergeant Rides In a truck The General Rides In a limousine But we're just out of law Sound off One, Two Sound off Three, Four Canons count One, Two, Three, Four One, Two, Three, Four One, Two, Three, Four One, Two, Three, Four Sound off quem more One, four And the one. Three, One, Three, One, Four One, One, Two, Four One, Two, How One, Two, Two, Three, Five, The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Sound off, sung by the Police League Club and selections from Kiss Me Kate. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Salabry, who is the leader of the Department of Sanitation band. We will now have the recession under the direction of the fire department band. The End The End The End You have been listening to the mayor's official reception to President Anastasio Somoza of the Central American Republic of Nicaragua. Mayor of the mayor of the National Police Department of the National Park, Mayor of the National Park, our mayor, and a number of city officials spoke their welcome to our distinguished visitor. Our master of ceremonies at the reception platform was the Honorable John A. Deitz. Now we invite you to hear the proceedings from the Security Council of the United Nations. The council is already in session. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System, WNYC, New York City's own station.