Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson, E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. This evening, we continue with our program 1950, midpoint in the 20th century. And whether we like it or not, it appears to most everybody that this half of the century has been filled with wars and revolutions. Some people may tell us that they have been for the good. I don't know. But in any event, we have had many wars and revolutions during the first half of the century, and that is the title for our discussion and lecture tonight. We are very fortunate in this evening that Mr. Scott Nearing has come down. I see there's really no need for me to continue this introduction. But just let me say that Mr. Nearing has come down from a very snow-covered Vermont, particularly to speak to us tonight. And that Mr. Nearing is a well-known sociologist. He is an author of at least ten books. I have a long list of them here in my hand, but I'm not going to read them all. Mr. Nearing is an educator, and he has been against war for a long period of time. He has studied the subject. He's studied it in Germany. He's studied the rise of Nazism there, and he has come back to this country and become a Vermont farmer. There's one thing that I would like to say about Mr. Nearing, that he had courage enough to run as a socialist candidate for congressman in New York City District here in 1918-1919. That took a little bit of courage in those particular years. It was a great pleasure for me to introduce to you Mr. Scott Nearing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Wars and Revolutions are phases of conflict. Wars bring organized groups together in conflict. Revolutions bring groups in the homeland together in a competitive attempt to secure power or to share power, as the case may be. Wars and revolutions commonly involve direct action. Although wars are sometimes legalized by a declaration of war, revolutions ordinarily occur outside the sphere of law. Wars and revolutions are frequently accompanied by force and violence, although this is not necessarily so. We are at the present time engaged in a Cold War, which has not yet been accompanied by force and violence. The Spanish Revolution of 1931 lived through five years, until 1936, without any particular expression of force and violence. The British elections of July 1945 turned out the Conservatives and put the Labour or Socialist Party in power without any resort to force and violence. Nevertheless, it is generally true that wars and revolutions employ direct action, and likewise that they involve force and violence. Wars and revolutions are characteristic features of that stage in social development which we call civilization. A civilized society, as the anthropologists use the term, is a society organized around a permanent market, occupying a city from which the term civilization is derived, building the apparatus of a political state, operating an economy for profit, maintaining certain property and class relations, and the general functioning of what we call exploitation, involved in the general functioning of what we call exploitation. Where those characteristics are present, we say that a civilized society has been set up. A.J. Toynbee, in his study of history, goes over the story of 21 of these civilizations. And you and I live in one area of civilization. We call it Western civilization. Every civilized state is set up to make war. Every civilized state has a war-making machine, which includes cabinet posts, heads of Army, Navy, Air Force, and the military, and the military, and the military. Large bureaus or departments engaged in preparations for war or in the conduct of war. Large numbers of men and women being trained in the science and art of war. And other large numbers of men and women engaged in the production of the material with which wars are made. Every civilized state has a military apparatus as one of the essential characteristics of civilized society. During recent times, say for example, the period covered by Quincy Wright in his book on war, there have been 278 wars fought, from 1480 to 1941. Of those 278 wars, 178 or two-thirds were fought mainly in Europe. During these 400 years, Europe was the center of Western civilization. So that in this modern period of four and a half centuries, two-thirds of the wars were fought, not among savages, not among barbarians, not among backward agricultural people. Two-thirds of the world. Two-thirds of the wars were fought among the most civilized people on the planet. And in the list of nations waging these wars, one nation, Great Britain, participated in 78 wars. The second on the list, France, participated in 71. The third on the list, Spain, participated in 64 wars. And these three nations topped the list in terms of the numbers of wars in which they participated. And at this time, during these centuries, Spain and France and Great Britain were the centers successively of Western civilization. Hence, my conclusion, my assumption, that wars and revolutions are characteristic features of civilization in general. And that they have been among the characteristic features of Western civilization during recent times. So that the capital cities, Berlin, Paris, St. Petersburg, London, Washington, the capital cities of the leading civilized countries, were the centers from which these wars were directed. The theory of revolution has been developed during the last 150 years, primarily in the centers of civilized ages. Whether that theory be the theory of the socialists, or of the anarchists, or of the syndicalists, or some other group, some other variant of the modern revolutionary movement, the theories of the revolution, the theories of revolution have been developed at the centers of civilization. The revolutions themselves, however, have been successfully practiced, not at the centers of civilization, but on its periphery. Namely, in those portions of the world, where capitalism, backed by its vast technical supporting group, and drawing its mass support from the middle class, had not yet been deeply rooted. The successful revolutions have taken place in Russia, in Eastern Europe, in China, in Mexico, less successful than the others that I mentioned, but outside, on the circumference, on the periphery of civilized society. Why? Because at the center, civilized society was still strong enough in Germany and elsewhere to throw off the efforts of the revolutionaries during this particular 50 years about which we're talking. Now, I wonder if I have said enough to make clear what we're talking about. We're talking about a phase of social life based upon conflict, which is peculiarly and directly related to civilized society and to Western civilization. Civilized society. From 1815 to 1910, that is, from the end of the Napoleonic War to the beginning of the Balkan Wars in the present century, during that hundred years, the world, the Western world, was comparatively free of war and revolution. From 1911 to the present time, we have witnessed an outburst or outbreak of wars and revolutions that has occupied the center of civilized man's attention during most of the last 40 years. Now, that outbreak of wars and revolutions since 1910 has corresponded with two or three important economic and sociological developments. First, capitalism reached the turning point in its history. The turning point in the history of capitalism came when the capitalist system could no longer absorb profits accumulated either in the domestic market or in the foreign market. When the accumulation of profit exceeded the capacity of the market to absorb, to utilize either the domestic market or the foreign market or both, then the capitalist world was forced into a competitive struggle not to gain markets, but to take them away from somebody else. And during that period, the slogan developed, export or die. And as one of the leading British business papers of the period said, what nation would not go to war for a billion pounds sterling worth of trade per year? During this period, therefore, which began about the turn of the century, during this period, the rival capitalist power began an armament race, began a competitive struggle, first on the economic and diplomatic plane, and then on the military plane, which eventuated in the war. In the war of 1914. The struggle to re-divide the colonies, the markets, the investment opportunities of the world, which had been raging since, uh, 1870 or thereabouts, reached its military climax in 1914. Or reached one of its military climax in 1914. And this climax in capitalist evolution, or capitalist change, involved the transformation of capitalist economy. the economy aiming at the economy aiming at destruction. And this country was only aiming at production to an economy aiming at destruction. When that time came, great numbers of people in all segments of the world, colonial as well as imperial, decided that something had to be done about it. about them. And the something took the form of revolution. So that after 1914, the world entered the first phase of the Great War, and after 1917, the Western world entered the first phase of the Great Revolution. So that from 1910 to 1950, history has afforded us an extraordinary chance to evaluate these two forms of social intercourse, war and revolution. And the main body of our discussion tonight has to do with that evaluation. And so I turn to my second topic, or my second general discourse, which has to do with wars and revolutions as social forces. The intensity of war and revolution depends largely upon the character of the tools available, because every tool is a potential weapon. And therefore, the level of the productive arc determines the level of military action. In a horse and buggy age, military action will depend on cavalry. And in an age of motor transport, military action will involve tanks and self-operating, self-moving guns. During the 50 years that we are discussing during the first half of the present century, war has become more total than at any previous time, because war has become better mechanized than at any previous time. The railroad, the telegraph, the telephone, the automobile, the airplane, these various developments which have taken place in the field of technology during the last half century, have been immediately transferred from the field of production to the field of destruction. And so it has been possible during this half century to mobilize men and materials on a larger scale, and to mobilize whole population on a larger scale than could ever be done heretofore, because heretofore the problem of feeding an armory with horse-drawn vehicles and the like limited the size of the army, whereas with railroad and truck transportation, with modern agricultural development, the volume of food supply can be increased at the source, and these food supplies can be moved into the field of operations on a larger scale than that that heretofore possible. And so in this era about which we're talking, not only is war a social force in the old sense, but war is a form of totalism with the whole of society mobilized economically, sociologically, psychologically, militarily, DFTA. on a scale not period of four achieved by modern man. I have on the table here a book which appeared a few weeks ago called Modern Arms and Free Men. It is written by Dr. Vannevar Bush, who is once again the head of the Carnegie Institution in Washington. Dr. Bush, during the recent war, was entrusted with the task of mobilizing scientists and engineers for the prosecution of the war. He spent about a half a billion dollars and mobilized about 30,000 technicians and direct their activities in connection with war. I suppose, therefore, Dr. Bush is better qualified to talk about modern arms than almost any other man in America. Now, this book, which is available at a dollar, is well worth your reading, because in it, Dr. Bush, who is exceedingly proud of what science and technology did for the winning of the recent war, points out two or three important lessons. And the first one is that mechanized war was an infant in arms from 1914 to 1918. Dr. Bush says that the two essential factors in mechanizing war are the internal combustion engine and the mass production of precision products. Dr. Bush says that the two essential factors in the war, and this was only just beginning at that time. He says that only after the late 1930s did mechanized warfare become possible on a mass scale, so that, in his judgment, we've had only about ten years of real war mechanization. He then goes on to discuss, in some detail, atomic fission. This book came out before the hydrogen bomb was discussed in public. He then goes on to discuss the atomic fission in some detailed effects that may or may not have on modern warfare. and his most important conclusion with regards to atomic fission is that there is no defense against it. The publishers published this book, I think, in November or December of last year, and a week ago, Dr. Bush went before a Senate committee and repeated this statement. There is no defense. Modern total war is not only total in its destructivity, it's also total in the sense that nobody can get away from it. As one author put it in his discussion of the subject, no place to hide. So that we find ourselves today, in the last ten years, Dr. Bush would say, we find ourselves today in a position which modern society has never before occupied with regard to wars and revolutions, namely a position where destructivity is wholesale, and where people in general cannot escape its effects. In former times, it was possible to get behind a city wall and defend the wall or get behind a frontier and defend the frontier. But in the last war, to a very large degree, in the first war to a lesser degree, the frontier was merely the point at which armies met and fought. While behind the frontier, agencies of destruction rained down disaster and death upon cities and peoples and countryside generals. And whichever side won the war, when the fighting stopped, both sides had suffered perhaps irreparable material and human damage. War, including total war, which is now the character of war, war, including total war, is competition on its highest level. That is, it is the form of struggle into which society puts more time, more energy, more thought, more effort than into any other single phase of social activity. And since competition is one of the central themes of civilized society, a competitive struggle for wealth and power, since competition is one of the central themes of civilized society, modern war has lifted competition to a level which makes possible the wiping out of civilized society itself. wars and revolutions have played a major role in shaping society. in the first place, they release whirlwinds of energy through an appeal to fear, to hate, to vengeance, to loyalty, to aspiration, to negative and positive appeal to human beings, to populations. They release people's energy. And this is notably true also of revolutions where, following every revolutionary overturn, people who are in the past, people who have been inert and comparatively indifferent to life, show a new interest in life and a new zeal and enthusiasm in its pursuit. And because wars and revolutions reveal, stimulus, release and stimulate these vast sums of human energy, they play a part in pushing society forward, in modifying its form in one way or in another. For example, they destroy old landmarks and social patterns, they uproot people, they unbalance economies, they dislocate society. That is, they make change rapid and inevitable. Revolution is currently associated and frequently associated with military defeat, which means that war is likely to be accompanied or followed by revolution, in those parts of modern society which suffer most severely as a result of war damage. Now, as we think along from the destructive side of war and revolution to the constructive side, we note that wars and revolutions clear the ground for a future construction. Western civilization is densely inhabited and occupied by buildings and institutions and forms of activity and habits and conventions and the like. As long as that old territory continues to be occupied by this, by that old social structure, changes are difficult to bring about. But with war and revolution functioning as I've just indicated, the old forms of society are either disturbed, thrown out of balance or smashed up. And thus the ground is cleared. For the other aspect of war and revolution, that is the constructive aspect, because wars solidify peoples, amalgamate peoples, consolidate authority. As Badgett, uh, points out in his Physics and Politics, war is the principal state maker. And as Lenin pointed out in his writings, war is the principal or one of the principal empire builders. So that war clears the ground on the negative side and helps in the building up of social organization on the positive side. In civilized communities, major changes are all made by wars and revolutions, either in whole or in power. Civilized society, what we call the Western state system, has consisted of a number of sovereign states and sovereign empires, each one going its own gate, following its own path, pursuing its own interests, whether that path ran afoul of the path of some other empire or not. And in order to protect its own interests and pursue its own path, each state and each empire has been armed, and as we pointed out earlier, has fought repeatedly, and recently has passed through revolutionary changes. After every major war, and in the course of every major revolution, the frontiers, geographic and class frontiers, are redrawn. And those of us who have lived through the last 40 years, and seen states made and unmade, unmade and made by war and by revolution, need merely be reminded that the shifting of frontiers, and the gains and losses due to the occupation of strategic advantages, is one of the main functions, and one of the main resultants of the wars and revolutions of our period. And the same thing, of course, applies to class relations, that applies to altered geographical relations. One more thing must be said about wars and revolutions, and that is that they help to diffuse culture traits. One of the preoccupations of historians and anthropologists, is the problem of spreading various types of human activity. Cultural diffusion, it's called at the present time, trade plays a very important part in cultural diffusion. War plays also a very vital part. You and I have just seen, in this last week, the operation of war in this area. The United States has just decided to make a super bomb, a hydrogen or fusion bomb, in order to occupy a strategically advantageous position in the Cold War. This fact was immediately communicated to all of the world centers, and within a few hours, from across the Iron Curtain, came the report that the Russians were also now going to make a hydrogen bomb, a super bomb. The United States would never have bothered with a super bomb, had it not been for the necessity of gaining strategic advantage in the Cold War. But once the United States makes the bomb, then Russia must make the bomb. And American economy and American society will be reshaped in this respect. And Russian economy and Russian society will also be reshaped in this respect. So that whatever is discovered or invented in one part of civilized society, particularly if it has to do with defense and aggression, is immediately copied, if possible, by people in other parts of civilized society. What we call espionage today is in major degree not an inquiry into the number of men in the Army. It's an inquiry into the latest scientific and technological development in the means of modern mechanized workers. And what I've been saying is that war and revolution have played and continue to play a very important part in shaping the life of civilized society. wars and revolutions also play a very important part in the distribution and redistribution of power relations. We live in a world of armed states. And in that world of armed states, strategic positions, industrial productivity, military equipment, available manpower, all of these factors spell success or failure in what we call the game of power politics. And the game of power politics has its ultimate test in the waging of wars. So that whether we have nation against nation or empire against the colonies or the colonies against the imperial motherland or whether we're dealing with class against class, the same factors remain. In modern civilized society, the redistribution of power depends in the last analysis on the ability to win wars. Now, science and technology have played and continue to play an extremely important part in the reshaping of society by peaceful and by military means and in the redistribution of power. But science and technology have done something more in the last few years, in the last few months, and that is to present mankind with a choice between peace and annihilation. I referred to Dr. Vannevar Bush's book, Modern Arms and Free Men. He doesn't say that. He's rather proud of the contribution made by science and technology between 1941 and this country and 1945. But Major General J. F. C. Fuller, in an article published by Ordnance, a magazine, military magazine, January, February 1946, had an article called The Age of Annihilation. And in this article, General Fuller, who is a top-ranking British military critic, argues that from the age of the TNT bomb to the age of the uranium bomb, the efficiency of United States bombing squadrons was increased 3,000 times. The city of Dresden was destroyed by United States bombers in two hours and a half. This was done with TNT bombs. If Major General Fuller is right with uranium bombs, it could be done in three seconds. That's one three-thousandth of the time taken to destroy this city by TNT bombs. And Major Fuller says in this article that what we face today, from a military point of view, is not the winning or losing of wars, but the survival or annihilation of Western civilisation. In a broadcast the other day, Dr. Albert Einstein put the matter a little differently. His phraseology was, disarm or die. What I have been arguing is that whereas in the past war and revolution have played a profoundly important part in shaping and reshaping society, in redistributing power, power, during the last ten years, technological developments have introduced a new element into the picture. In addition to reshaping society and redistributing power, war can now exterminate the human race. That brings me to the third part of my discussion, which is devoted to the question, can modern man afford wars and revolutions? Wars and revolutions, as I've tried to point out, achieve notable social results, have notable effects on the relations, geographic and class relations in society. But, uh, at a very high price. A few years back, until 1916, 1917, the Empire of Russia was ruled over by a Tsarist regime, based primarily upon a semi-feudal form of society, and stubbornly resistant to modern industrialization. Probably the Tsarist regime succeeded in retarding the industrialization of Russia by at least 60 or 75 years. Now, when a social system like that of Tsarist bureaucracy lays itself athwart the path of human advance, the historical method of disposing of it has been and was a series of wars, Japan versus Russia, 1945, Germany versus Russia, 1914, 1917, in the course of which the old Russian social apparatus was so badly crippled that it was virtually put out of business. At the same time, in 1905 and in 1917, revolutionary movements took place in Russia, the first one unsuccessful, the second one highly successful, and in the course of these wars and revolutions, property in Russia was destroyed wholesale, productivity was disastrously lowered to about one-seventh, of its pre-1914 level, and millions of people lost their lives, and suffered irreparable damage to their bodies and their minds, and to their social relations. the release. Is there no other way to achieve this same result? Or if you want to put it in another fashion, Between 1917 and 1950, capitalism has been liquidated in Europe. Napoleon achieved the same effect for feudalism between 1793 and 1815. During these last 40 years, capitalism has been liquidated in Europe. At the cost of great material loss, at the cost of great loss of human life, and at the cost of an untold volume of human suffering. Granted that czarism in Russia in 1910 was an anachronism. Granted that capitalism in Europe in 1939 was an anachronism. Is there no other way to roast the pig except by burning down the barn? I'm referring, of course, to Charles Lamb's essay on roast pig. Let us put the matter this way. Social change is necessary and inevitable, particularly when social changes are based upon inventions and discoveries which modify the means of production. Social change is necessary and inevitable. Social change is necessary and inevitable. And as wise directors of social change, we should seek to effect these changes with the least amount of loss, with the greatest amount of salvage of the old society, and with the highest efficiency in building the new society. Also, I suppose, we should seek to bring about these changes with the greatest respect for life. Now, this brings us, you see, immediately to the point where we have to realize that war and revolutions in the past have been primarily unscientific. They've been primarily a hurling together of masses of men and materials under the guidance of trained technicians whose one idea was to win victory. They have not been directed by social engineers. Would it not be worth the while of Western man, provided he still has the time, to spend the next fifty years of this century working out a science and an art of social engineering, through the use of which it would be possible to guide social change and to bring about social change with the least material in human loss? If you have an old building, say an old school building here on the island of Manhattan, and if the Board of Health condemns it or some other authority condemns it as unsafe for occupation, you don't bring in a squadron of bombers and destroy a square mile. You bring in a group of men trained in house wrecking. They take down the building, clear the land, and another group of men trained in construction come in and put up the new school building that the community requires. This is civil engineering. Now, when you have an anachronism like capitalism in Europe at the beginning of the present century, it isn't necessary to pass through a decade of depression and two general wars and a long period of revolutionary struggle with the enormous losses involved in order to liquidate that old social structure and to begin the work of putting a new social structure in its place. And so I would think that Cooper Union and other centers of learning could hardly render a greater service to mankind than by offering courses in the science and art of social engineering with the understanding... ...with the understanding that these social engineering techniques would be utilized under the direction of a world authority with sufficient legislative, executive, and judicial powers to decide when czarism is outmoded, when capitalism is obsolete in Western Europe or North America, and then to take the necessary legislative, executive steps to see that this decision is carried into effect. If you can... If you can do that with a building on Manhattan Island, you can do it with a modern social institution. All that we have to do is to remove from our minds the archaic conceptions of the pre-internal combustion engine pre-atomic station age. One of those conceptions is that people can defend a particular nation against other nations. Another of those conceptions is that it's a wonderful and glorious thing to fight and win a war. Now, if you can remove from your minds those outmoded conceptions, and then can turn your attention as world citizens to working out an apparatus which will plan social change, clear the ground of outmoded social institutions, rebuild and up-build the world. And if you can up-build the social environment, then I think mankind will be prepared to dispense with both wars and revolutions, because social changes will be made, and the new society will be constructed according to the latest techniques of social engineering. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. I would like to invite about 15 or 20 people, 15 or 20 people to ask questions of Mr. Meering this evening. We have a microphone right down here. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. I would like to invite about 15 or 20 people, 15 or 20 people to ask questions of Mr. Meering this evening. We have a microphone right down here. I also have some paper available if you would prefer to write your questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. I would like to invite about 15 or 20 people, 15 or 20 people to ask questions of Mr. Meering this evening. We have a microphone right down here. I also have some paper available if you would prefer to write your questions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much for that very fine talk and I have a large number of questions here. and if we can try to answer some of these just as rapidly as we can, I have a gentleman over here. Thank you, Mr. Scott Meering. Thank you, Mr. Scott. How about the transportation of the subject to the issue? It's all made by the . Yes, sir. Mr. Scott. How about the transportation of the subject to the issue? Mr. Scott Meering. How about the transportation of the subject to the issue? Mr. Scott Meering. I don't know how about the situation. Mr. Scott Meering. Mr. Scott Meering. The gentleman would like to know, how about the terrific influence of vested interests? By the way you have all of those interfered with or completely blocked methods of social change. Mr. Scott Meering. See if we can get that mic up a little bit. Mr. Scott Meering. Mr. Scott Meering. Vested interests such as those of the Czarist bureaucracy in Russia, for example. Mr. Scott Meering. Mr. Scott Meering. Mr. Scott Meering. Hello. First time in history we haven't been able to hear on this microphone. Well, I'm sorry, we'll just have to try and extend our voices a little bit now, sir. The mechanical devices have failed us in this social crisis. My answer to this question... No, the mic is dead. My answer to this question about the vested interest... ...is that in Russia, before 1917, the czarist interests were very powerful, vested interests, and they were destroyed, and, uh, the 1917 revolution turned power over to the Bolsheviks. Or, if you like, take the vested interest in China between 1947 and 1949. The Chinese landlords and capitalists and moneylenders supporting the nationalist government were backed up by about a billion dollars and a half of aid from the United States every year since the war, supported by American military personnel who were training the Chinese nationalist forces. And these vested interests of China and the United States combined were swept out of existence between 1947 and 1949. Now, I recognize the fact that vested interests have to be taken into account. They are the leaders of whatever counter-revolutionary movements are organized, but vested interests can also be defeated. How about using force on that? Uh, does, does the defeat of the vested interest... ...did the defeat of the vested interest in Russia in 1917, and China from 1947 to 1949 involved the use of force? Yes, most emphatically it did. All right, uh... Thank you. And some persons argue that communism and Nazism are alike in their aggressive dynamics. Some people, ladies and gentlemen, are on a question. Since living with Nazism was impossible, is the same thing true with present-day Russia, or is there a possible way of living with communism in the same world? I wonder if the questioner will let me alter that question a little bit, and put it this way. Since capitalism and communism find it difficult to live side by side in the same world, is there any reason for believing that capitalism can survive long enough to put any serious obstacle in the way of communist worldwide development? I would answer that question, no. We have no reason that capitalism will survive that long. Mr. Nearing, is the United Nations... Is the United Nations the foundation of such an institution as you visualized we should have? No, the United Nations is a weak confederation of sovereign armed states. Before any type of effectual world control can be set up, we must have a federal world government with legislative and police power. Thank you, sir. Working people may be ready to use the modern way of social change, but are today's ruling classes, it says the greedy ruling classes, ready to make peaceful changes as the rest of the world is able or wishes to? Fortunately, the members of the greedy ruling classes comprise a very small minority of the population. And once it has become clear that the greedy ruling classes are doing things that are adverts to the interests of the masses of the population, it will be as easy to dispose of the greedy ruling classes as it is to dispose of highwaymen or pickpockets or any other antisocial elements in the population. Does it work now? Well, now we'll try this mechanical device again and see if we have any better luck. Now, good evening. You try this. Two related questions. The first, what system would you substitute for capitalism in the United States? The second, does the cooperative movement have a chance in a country as large as ours where great efficiency and speed are required? The cooperative movement has not made headway in any important center of modern industrial society. It has made headway in agrarian communities and in small communities like those of Scandinavia. This is an answer to the second part of the question. The first part of the question was, what would you substitute for capitalism in North America? Why the answer to that is perfectly obvious. Some type of collectivism based on the social ownership of the means of production, on the abolition of exploitation, on economic planning, and an American economy coordinated with a planned world society. Thank you for that very honest answer. And here's a question. Isn't your reliance on civil engineering rather naive in the light of your own teaching of the role of class interests? I don't understand that. I did not rely on civil engineering. I relied on social engineering. And what I tried to say was, that instead of leaving social change to hit or miss, directed by graduates of West Point and Annapolis, that we should make social changes under the direction of competent, competently trained social engineers. We're going to try this again now. We're desperate now. Will you speak right into this? Dr. Nearing, it seems to me you jumped to the conclusion very fast when you said that capitalism is liquidated in Europe, and that capitalism is an anachronism and is obsolete and has to make way for social change. And in your opinion, that social change must be communism. Now, I don't believe that the great majority of people will accept that. I would also like to say to you that if we must have social engineers, we must start first with the educators, because they are the only social engineers that can do the job. Now, all social engineers included, but the educators first. Yes, yes, I think we have to start with the educators. And one of the things that we'll have to do is to modify a good deal the personnel which directs the educational process. At the present time, the same men who direct our railroads and banks and manufacturing establishments, direct our schools and colleges and our various educational institutions, the same malefactors of great wealth, to use Theodore Roosevelt's phrase, direct our education and direct our profit economy. And in order to break through this crust of profit economy, we also have to modify the structure of our educational apparatus. Now, this lady, this lady asked me what reason I have for supposing that capitalism has been liquidated in Western Europe. And I answer her that in 1910, the European nations had balanced budgets, stable currencies. They were carrying on organized trade with themselves, with each other, and with the rest of the world. They had a system of economy and society set up which had stood the test of a hundred years, and which regarded itself as a stable and more or less eternal system. Since that time, every European budget has been unbalanced. Every European currency has broken down. Every European credit structure has become more or less bankrupt. Every European nation of major proportions has, except Great Britain, has been defeated in war. In other words, that what has gone on in the last 40 years has crumpled up the structure of Western European capitalist society. Now, this is general. Now, specifically, on the 31st of October, 1949, Mr. Paul Hoffman went to Paris and talked to the Marshall Plan Council. And he told them some very straight things. He said, if we go on, as at present, in 1952, Western European economy will still be bankrupt. And United States aid will be withdrawn, and you fellows will be in the super. Now, this is my word, not Mr. Hoffman's word. Now, said Mr. Hoffman, he's the coordinator, the commissioner of Marshall Plan A. Now, said Mr. Hoffman, there is one thing which you must do. You must take down your frontiers. You must abolish your tariffs. You must abandon your individual currencies. You must set up an integrated, unified market in Western Europe with 270 million consumers. And then Western European economy must function in this continent-wide market. Unless, said he, you'll do that, we'll fail in what we're trying to do. The next day, Stafford Quips went before the same Marshall Plan Council and said, under no circumstance will the British accept any such program, provided it interferes either with the sterling bloc or with the British Commonwealth of Free Nations. And since that time, Mr. Hoffman has gone before committees of Congress and said that he is profoundly disappointed with what has been happening since October. Now, Mr. Hoffman, you don't need to take my word for it. Mr. Hoffman told these leaders of Western Europe, unless you do so-and-so, you'll go bankrupt. And the leaders of Western Europe have replied, well, integration is impossible. And so, Western European capitalism is now on the way to the wastebats. Now, Mr. Nehring, there are several questions here about the same vein. And briefly speaking, they state, the Communists claim that the United States wants war. Do you think the United States really wants war? There is a paper published in the United States, known as the United States News and World Report. This is a paper published for businessmen by businessmen. If you will look in the numbers for February 10th and 17th, 1950, and the first yellow page of the economic situation. You will find a statement there that we do not face any immediate danger of depression because we are carrying on military spending at a level which will make depression unnecessary. And then they go on to say, should a higher level be necessary, a little war scare will bring the taxpayers around to that point of view. On the 25th of last October, Professor Sumner Schlichter, Professor of Economics at Harvard, made a speech in New York's organization in which he said that the Cold War is a good thing because without the Cold War, we could not get the present military appropriation, and without the present military appropriation, we could not carry on our economy at its present level of productivity. Now, in 1931, the Japanese discovered that an expedition into Manchuria would liquidate the depression in Japan, and it did. In 1933, Hitler took notice and began to build up a military economy in Germany. He reduced unemployment from $7 million to $450,000. In 1933, the United States was spending $4 billion a year. We are now spending $40 billion a year, 70% of it for war. Germany deliberately set up a war economy in order to offset depression. The United States is today deliberately maintaining a war economy in order to offset depression. And the Cold War is the means of keeping people frightened enough so they'll permit the expenditure of $40 or $42 billion a year, 70% of it for war purposes. In other words, and in specific answer to your question, if tomorrow the United States should disarm or should return to the armament level of 1938, we'd be in the depths of the deepest depression in the history of United States economy. And we'd be happy to have to be conscious. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I have one long question here which I'll summarize. A gentleman says it's the $64 question. Very briefly speaking, he states, may I suggest that in the next war, he believes of course, there's no doubt, in the next war the draft will take all of those between 50 and 60 in the first age group, those from 40 to 50 in the second, and leave the 21-year-olds home to produce another race and another group of people. If we're going to have a push-button war, let's have the older folks push the buttons and the young ones stay home. That's what we want. The only, the only reply that I can make to that is to say if the gentleman can provide for this type of policy, the enthusiasm for war on Capitol Hill will be greatly diminished. All right, sir, now a nice short question. Dr. Nearing, my question is brief, but a statement equally brief must be made. I'm an atomic scientist, a research chemist, and technologist in the field of human relations for the last two decades. As atomic scientist, I was backed by the biggest newspaper in this city, and I was called before the Atomic Energy Commission in 1937 with a defense against atomic bomb. This, the government let me have only politicians to talk to. They don't want no defense. This defense is a part of a technological power by which you can change the political sovereignty of any nation, United States included, as well as Russia, without conquering it. And they don't want it. Can I have your support by addressing post office box 60, planetarium station 24, New York? Well, you're certainly right on there, isn't it, Doctor? Do you want to comment on that at all? All right, sir. Good evening. Mr. Wallace stated in Madison Square Garden, there are two nations working towards democracy, and three points comprise democracy, ethnic, political, and economic. There are two nations who have two points, Russia, namely economic and ethnic. The United States, one, political. In your estimation, what you propose tonight, which nation shall achieve what you intend to do tonight, and in the light of present-day effects, who does the world look to for guidance, the United States or the Soviet Union, as an example? The oligarchy, the ruling minority in the United States, is trying to operate a bankrupt economy, and trying to operate it under a political structure which was set up at the time the United States was an aggregate of villages, and, uh, used tallow candles for illumination, and oxen and horses for locomotion. The United States political apparatus is out-moved at the present time. Like its economy, it has no possible chance for survival in the present-day world. And the sooner we make up, the sooner we accommodate ourselves to the technological changes which have modified the world during the last 50 years, the greater our personal chances for survival. I assume that the institutions, the economic and political institutions of the United States, cannot survive. Now, if we find out in time, you and I may survive. If we're slow about it, then we will be liquidated with the economy and with the political institutions. Thank you, Doctor. And here's the lady. Dr. Nearing, it seems to me that the question of the analogy of the tearing down the building is a little bit oversimplified. Because whereas there is a building that has no say in it, the one that is to be liquidated in this battle, which is a fatal one, it seems to me that the hydrogen bomb will come into play if one is to be liquidated. How shall we go about it to avoid that liquidation or that tearing down completely of that structure? Is it possible to carry on the direction, the planning and direction of social change without running into the opposition of those vested interests which might be damaged by social change? I think not. But the opposition of those vested interests can be taken care of by various methods of accommodation. For example, when the consolidation of the British Trade Union movement began, they had about 5,000 local unions all over the British Isle. And every local union had a chairman and a secretary. And more or less, they had jobs for life. So those who were advocating trade union consolidation, provided that after the consolidation, the chairman and the secretary of the local group would have a pension for life. And the consolidation went through. Now, if they had proposed to liquidate these officials, the consolidation would have been retarded by accommodating themselves to the obvious desire of these officials to continue living as they had been living. By making this accommodation, the consolidation became possible. And I assume, therefore, that there are more ways to kill a cat besides choking it with butter. Thank you, sir. Now, will you speak right up, please? Uh, Scott. Excuse me, you have a better voice than that. Yes, all right. If we understand the unequal distribution of power, in what way will the, uh, uh, the world authority that you've projected to decide when, uh, social institutions are obsolete, uh, differ from any other, uh, national government, for instance, that might be set up in any country, here or, or anywhere else in the Western world? Yes, the same problem would be handled by a world authority that is now handled by a national authority. Uh, how does the United States, how do the people of New York decide when their educational system is obsolete? How do they decide when the, uh, legislature, when the legislature of New York is set up a New York University, a statewide university? How are matters of this kind set? By discussion, by public meetings, by, uh, organized protest, by, um, committees of, uh, inquiry and whatnot, commissions of inquiry, by various methods. And, uh, when it is found that an old institution has fulfilled its usefulness or has become obsolete, then it is modified or liquidated as the case may be. Now, I grin that this will not be done as easily to take down a building. But I insist that sooner or later, our innate sense of the thickness and decency of things, and our respect for property and for life, will compel us to abandon wars and revolutions and to substitute social engineering. Thank you very much. And now here's another question. Speak right up to me. One of the previous questioners mentioned that we had political democracy. Uh, I think we've got some left. Uh, but, uh, what new means, if any, do Americans have of preventing the enforcement of a police state, fascism, that the German people didn't have? You've mentioned, uh, accommodation, buying off. But that is not too efficient because people not only like to have, uh, income, but they like the power that goes along with it. Uh, what other social techniques or political methods, uh, that, do we have that, say, the Germans didn't have? Or we learned? I would say that, uh, the United States at the present time occupies a position that was characterized by Woodrow Wilson in 1912, when he said an invisible empire has been set up above the forms of democracy. We have political democracy, yes, but the country is operated by the big business boys and their aides, their satellites, their henchmen. Now, uh, in Germany, there was a Communist Party, there was a Socialist Party, uh, segments of the religious denominations who fought hard against Nazis. Against Nazis. In the United States, we have almost no organized movement of any kind that is essentially anti-fascist in Paris. There is a Communist Party in Germany that polled, uh, if I remember, about eight, seven million votes. In the United States, about, uh, 75 or 100,000. Literally today, the American people are defenseless against the fascism which has already been established in high places. Thank you. Now, you stated that about 70% of our 40 billion expenditure went for war. Do you think it would be possible to divert 70% of this tremendous sum of money for the benefit of housing, food, education, under the capitalistic system? Or must we have another system to accomplish that? No, this is impossible, because the money spent by the Federal Government must not come into the market. It must be spent in such a way that it does not come into competition with business. If it comes into competition with business, then its purpose is destroyed. Government spending means that the government puts its money into something that does not, is, that is not provided by the business world. And if you'll consult the real estate lobby, you'll find that a government housing project of the kind that you mentioned will be unacceptable. And if it's unacceptable, it will not be adopted as long as the capitalist system lasts. We've both been riding our vocal cords, particularly Scott Neering, so I think that this is time that we call this meeting to our close. Thank you. Thank you.