By Transcription, you and your health. Each weekday morning at this time, your city station and the public service offers a talk by an outstanding medical or dental authority on the matters most closely concerning your health and well-being. As each Monday and Friday morning, we bring you now a member of New York City's own Department of Health. Well, wintertime is just ahead of us, and we may soon expect plenty of snow and sleet. With this in mind, WNYC, in cooperation with your city health department, brings you this program to help you enjoy good health this winter. You know, health in winter often depends upon freedom from cold, and catching cold is very expensive. New Yorkers spend over $40 million each year on their cold, on medications, and in loss of time from work. Moreover, as we all know, a neglected cold may lead to pneumonia. And it is from this point of view that Dr. Michael Antell, a district health officer with your city health department, will discuss the subject. He will give us some pointers on how to enjoy the wintertime and stay healthy, whatever the weather. Dr. Antell, is there any explanation for the fact that there are more colds in the winter than in the other seasons of the year? Well, Mr. Waldman, you begin with a most difficult question. You see, the cause of the common cold is still a mystery. We do know that the risk of catching a cold is greater when the weather is cold and wet. We also know that colds may be the forerunner of severe illnesses, such as pneumonia, because the cold lowers the body's resistance to other diseases. Pneumonia is a serious disease and, like the cold, occurs in every season of the year, but is more prevalent in winter. Well, Dr. Antell, how would you define the term pneumonia? From the health department broadcast about two weeks ago on the subject of bacteria, I believe that pneumonia was described as a disease caused by the sort of bacteria called cocci, if I remember correctly. That's right. Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs and, as you say, is usually caused by certain types of bacteria called pneumococci. However, in some instances, pneumonia may be caused by a virus. That is, an organism too small to be seen, even by high-powered microscopes. Then it is what is popularly called a virus pneumonia. In either case, it is an inflammation of the lungs. This morning, we will speak mainly of the pneumonia caused by the pneumococci. Well, are these the pneumonias called bronchopneumonia and lobar pneumonia? Whether it is bronchopneumonia or lobar pneumonia depends on where the infection is located in the lungs. What's the difference between the two, doctor? Well, now, to explain the difference between bronchopneumonia and lobar pneumonia, I must first tell you something about the structure of the lungs. As you know, the windpipe extends from the throat to the lungs and branches out into smaller and smaller tubes, which finally end up in small groups of air sacs. It is this network which brings oxygen to our tissues and throws off carbon dioxide. In a case of bronchopneumonia, the infection involves these tiny groups of air sacs in a patchy sort of way, whereas in lobar pneumonia, entire sections or lobes of the lungs become more or less uniformly inflamed. Well, how do people contract this disease, or should I say diseases? Patients who have not received proper care while suffering from measles, whooping coughs, scarlet fever, and similar infectious diseases are especially susceptible to bronchopneumonia. The pneumonia contracted after such illnesses is then described as a secondary infection. Lobar pneumonia, on the other hand, is usually a primary infection. That is, it strikes apparently healthy people. Pneumococci are the germs usually responsible for lobar pneumonia. There are more than 30 different types of pneumococci that can be seen under the microscope, and it was in our own health department laboratories that most of these types were identified by a bacteriologist, Georgia Cooper, who died just a few years ago. Well, Dr. Antell, I wonder if you could tell us in a simplified way exactly what happens in the lungs when a person has pneumonia. Yes, I think I can. The germs cause an inflammation of the affected parts of the lungs. The tiny air sacs and tubes become filled with fluid and sometimes with pus so that they can no longer work properly. Because of this, the body can't get all the oxygen it needs. Neither can it get rid of its waste product, carbon dioxide. And as a result, the patient may suffocate. Well, that sounds like a disease I'd like to stay far away from. And I'm sure our listeners feel the same way about it. Would you give us some advice as to how we may try to avoid coming down with pneumonia? All right. Let's mention a few of the ways of protecting ourselves against pneumonia. If possible, avoid crowded places such as subways, buses, and bar encounters. Keep in good physical conditions so as to strengthen the body in its fight against germs. That means getting enough sleep, eating a well-planned, nutritious diet, and getting regular outdoor exercise. I suppose also that we should try not to get chilled. That's right. Dress according to the weather so that you're protected from cold and dampness. When you go indoors, keep from getting overheated. And in your own rooms, keep the temperature between 65 and 70. That's not only comfortable, but the healthiest in the long run. Doctor, did you say before the mingling in crowds may lead to pneumonia? Yes, I did, Mr. Waldman, and I was wondering how soon you would pick me up on it. I'll admit it's a little difficult to tell New Yorkers to keep out of crowds. Still, we can see to it that we don't get into crowds unnecessarily in this pneumonia season. You know, Dr. Antel, all your suggestions to keep up our general health, to dress sensibly, and to keep out of crowds seem to be the same ones that are given to avoid colds. You're absolutely right. You see, these general precautions can prevent colds as well as pneumonia. And, of course, by preventing colds, you are also indirectly preventing pneumonia. Because, as I said, pneumonia often follows other diseases. Well, how can we avoid such secondary infection, Doctor? Well, now let's first talk about colds. Never neglect a cold, especially in children. At the first sign of a cold, stay home and get plenty of rest. Fatigue, chilling, or mingling in crowds are all much more dangerous when you have a cold. So let me repeat. Don't neglect a cold. Instead, stay at home and get plenty of rest. And now I want to add a most important warning. If a cold is accompanied by fever, put the patient to bed and call the doctor. Don't take a chance. Well, I wonder if you would tell us how pneumonia starts. Are there definite symptoms? Yes, there are fairly definite symptoms, particularly with the onset of low-bar pneumonia. It begins suddenly, often with a sharp pain in the chest and with chills and fever. There may also be coughing and expectoration. Well, I can readily understand why it's so necessary to call a doctor as soon as a fever is noticed. It is indeed. Only a physician can tell whether or not the patient actually has pneumonia. And only he can decide what treatment is most helpful. Delay in calling a doctor means delay in diagnosis, delay in treatment, and delay in recovery. Well, Dr. Antel, are there factors which make some people especially susceptible to the disease? Yes, there are. Although there are many exceptions, it has been found that the very young and the aged are more easily affected. Men succumb to the disease more often than women. Also, the kind of work a person does has a bearing on the matter. Those exposed to large crowds and great fatigue or sudden changes of temperature are more apt to get pneumonia. Exposure to sudden changes in temperature at any time of the year is a predisposing factor. For example, during hot weather, air conditioning may feel very comfortable for the time being. But a sudden change from, say, 90 degrees or 100 to 70 degrees may result in a chill followed by a cold in susceptible people. In the winter, the change may be from a dry, overheated welling to damp, freezing outdoor weather, with a person aggravating the situation by, say, not wearing the right clothing. In addition, other factors with lower resistance, such as excessive drinking of alcoholic beverages or lack of sleep or worry, may make an individual susceptible. What would a good stay healthy program be, Doctor? Best of all, try to avoid colds by observing good health habits. If children sniffle, keep them indoors and home from school. Colds too often are passed around in the classroom from child to child. The cold symptoms may be a forerunner of other communicable diseases, such as measles and whooping cough. So, by keeping your children home if they have colds and calling the doctor, you are protecting their classmates as well as your own children from some of these more serious diseases, as well as from the cold. If there is a baby in the family, keep them away from anyone with a cold. Infants are very susceptible to colds. What might be a slight cold in an adult may be serious to an infant. Whenever you have a cold, cover your coughs and sneezes and get as much rest as possible. Call your doctor if a member of your family has a sharp pain in the chest, fever, or a chill, or a painful cough, especially if it brings up rust-colored sputum. Thanks to the use of sulfur drugs and the antibiotics, such as penicillin, today's pneumonia patient has a very good chance of recovering. These wonder drugs of recent years have literally proved to be lifesavers where pneumonia is concerned. These drugs have made this disease, which once ranked high among the causes of death, relatively easy to cure. Twenty years ago, about 9,000 New Yorkers died of pneumonia. Ten years ago, this dropped to close to 3,400. But last year, only 2,600 people died of pneumonia in New York City. Nevertheless, you can see that pneumonia is still a disease we must take steps to avoid. And you must give these drugs an even break. You must call the doctor early so that he can make the diagnosis and start proper treatment immediately. Even the so-called miracle drugs will be of little help if the disease is allowed to go too far before treatment is begun. Well, doctor, are the antibiotics and sulfur drugs effective in the treatment of virus pneumonia also? No specific treatment has yet been found for this virus pneumonia. However, it is rarely fatal. It is very weakening, though, and requires several weeks for convalescence. Now, a little while ago, you said that bronchopneumonia is usually a secondary disease following such illnesses as measles or a hooking cough. Will you please tell us how this happens? Yes, that's quite easy to explain and, in many instances, also possible to avoid. Bronchopneumonia as a secondary infection may occur if, for example, children who have had one of the communicable diseases return to their normal activities too soon. If your physician's advice is to keep your child in bed or in the house for a certain period after one of these illnesses, it is for a good reason. And that reason is to guard the patient against secondary diseases such as bronchopneumonia. I cannot stress strongly enough the importance of calling your doctor when anyone in the family has a cold with fever. When it is a child who is ill, these symptoms may indicate the beginning of one of the common childhood diseases. Well, it seems that prevention is the best care. But if one should be unlucky enough to get pneumonia, what beside early medical attention is necessary for recovery? Our next in importance to prevention is to follow the physician's orders very carefully. The patient must be allowed a proper period of convalescence in bed. He must be guarded against exposure to cold and chills. He must avoid close contact with others during his convalescence so as not to spread the disease. It has been found that the pneumococcal germs may be found in the mouth as long as 90 days after a patient has recovered. Rest and proper nourishment are essential. It is important that the patient rests quietly in bed free from both physical and mental exertion. It is best that only those nursing the patient should enter the room. This ensures quiet and helps prevent spread of infection. If your physician should decide that a professional nurse is needed and you cannot engage one, your physician may arrange for the low-cost visiting nurse service that can be obtained through your local visiting nurse association. The nurse will carry out the physician's orders. Thank you, Dr. Antel, for your talk on pneumonia. By following your suggestions, all of our listeners can strive to avoid colds and pneumonia and make wintertime a more healthful season for themselves and their families. For your copy of today's broadcast, write to you and your health. Station WNYC, Municipal Building, New York 7, New York. Be sure to mention the date of the broadcast. We invite you to be with us for the next Health Department broadcast at this same time on Monday. This has been a transcribed feature of the Municipal Broadcasting System.