Good afternoon. This day, Sunday, September 23rd, has been designated as Interfaith Day by proclamation of Mayor Impeletary and Governor Dewey. And from the mall in Central Park, your city station is about to broadcast the seventh annual observance of Interfaith Day, which is sponsored by the Interfaith Movement Incorporated, Robert A. Carroll President. Interfaith Day was conceived for the purpose of reminding the world that unity can and does exist, regardless of a person's religion, origin, or color. Right here in New York City are persons of many different racial strains, many different religions, who at this moment are giving a living example of how people of diverse origins and beliefs can live in harmony and peace. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the first voice you will hear this afternoon will be that of the Vice Chairman of Interfaith Day, Emil K. Ellis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege and a great pleasure indeed to present to you the Chairman of Interfaith Day, the beloved President of the Board of Education, Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Maximilian Moss. Mr. Ellis, who acted so ably as your presiding officer for the preceding part of this program, is a past president of the Interfaith Movement and vice chairman of the day. In your behalf, I want to extend to him our very deep appreciation for a delightful program. We will now rise and join in the singing of the national anthem led by that well-known operatic star, Miss Myra Manning. Thank you. Thank you. Oh , say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly beheld at the twilight's last gleaming, Both frostbripe and bright stars through the perilous fight. All the records we watched were so gallantly streaming. And rockets red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night, and the flag was still there. Oh, say does that stuff banged out, and day it wave. O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave. Let us rise again for the invocation, which will be pronounced by the right reverend Monsignor John S. Middleton, Secretary for Education to His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, in the Archdiocese of New York. Monsignor Middleton. Eternal God, in whom power, truth, and love live in the absolute oneness of thine ineffable nature, send forth thy spirit of peace upon us to renew the face of the earth. In the inspired words of the psalmist thou hast revealed, To the true of heart, a light is risen up in darkness. The Lord is merciful, compassionate, and just. We thy creatures adore thee and the unity of thy being, the first cause and last end of all unity among men and nations. Thine apostle has taught us, There is neither Jew nor Greek, There is neither slave nor free man, There is neither male nor female, For you are all one in Christ Jesus. Come, O Holy Spirit of unity, To make our rough ways smooth, And the crooked paths of men straight. Teach us to conquer the death of sin, And to dissipate the darkness of error, The real causes of disunion, discord, and disaster. Make the burning prayer of the incarnate word, Our constant yearning, That all may be one. Give us the comfort of thy coming, Announcing the good tidings of peace, To those afar off and to those who are near, Because in thee we have access to the father and friend of all men, And each man of every nation. In the unity of thy peace, May we all be true peacemakers, Ever realizing that it is a greater glory to kill wars by persuasion, Than men by the sword, And to acquire peace through peace. Holy Spirit of unity, Thou hast made our beloved country the United States. Thou didst inspire the framers of our Constitution, To make their first expressed purpose, The formation of a most perfect union. In thee, With thee, Through thee, And by thee, May domestic tranquility be secured, And may the blessings of liberty Be perpetuated among us. Through thy merciful protection, We are the most powerful And the most peaceful nation in the world. As the acclaimed leader among the nations, Keep us aware of our responsibility To the peoples of the earth. While we generously share Our material resources with others, May our hearts be pure, That the gifts of our hands May be purifying In the cause of unity and peace Everywhere. Make us a nation adoring thee, The one true God. Make us a praying people. Teach us to pray, To pray as we have never prayed before, To pray with humility, To pray with simplicity, To pray with complete confidence, Teach us to pray the prayer of pleading, To pray the prayer of living, To pray the prayer of pain, To pray the prayer of loneliness, To pray the prayer of labor, To pray the prayer of truth, To pray the prayer of truth, To pray the prayer of truth, In charity, Spirit of power, Spirit of wisdom, Spirit of love, Spirit of unity, Spirit of peace, Come. Reverend clergy, Deputy mayor Horowitz, Distinguished guests, Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that so many Americans Have come here to celebrate Interfaith Day Is part of the great glory, Which is America. This day is not devoted to the celebration Of one authorized faith, Or one required way of life, It is instead devoted to that mingling of faiths And races and beliefs, Which paradoxically strengthens each one of us In his own belief, While reinforcing his respect for that of his neighbor. Too many people, Both in this country and abroad, Have thought of the old symbol of the melting pot As if it were some mechanical contrivance That turned out uniform and interchangeable products Identical robots produced in identical molds With no spark of individuality Or spiritual vitality. This day contradicts that outmoded conception Of the melting pot. America glories in diversity. We do not have to abandon the ways of our fathers Or the inner convictions of our souls To be Americans. The more strongly we hold to our own faith And our own beliefs, The more firmly do we defend The rights of our neighbors to theirs. It is only where men are truly secure That they can meet with others Of different faiths and backgrounds. Not in combat and rivalry, But in friendship and brotherhood. It is not the elimination of differences That makes America strong, But rather the recognition That in spite of differences, We are all animated By the same faith in God And the same devotion to our country While still retaining Each our own individualism We are and will remain One country and one people. Thank you. We will now have The distinct pleasure Of hearing the Brooklyn Post Office Glee Club render The children's hymn. This is under the A-bone direction Of Bob Nicosia. Mr. Nicosia enjoys A wide reputation As a continental singing guitarist Along all of the highways Of this city and elsewhere. And I'm sure when you've Heard the Glee Club finish You will say That we have one of the finest In the country. He's been one of the ways In the Whoever's Catholic II When he names the Lord, His every child's beloved Lord. No matter what they call his name, He loves all children just the same. Amen. You'll hear from them again. We were next to have the address of the Honorable Walter T. Shirley, Commissioner of Commerce of the City of New York. Urgent official business, as indicated by a telegram which I have just received, prevented his appearance. But in his stead, however, we have his able Deputy Commissioner of Commerce, who I am glad to say is also the Director of Public Relations of the Interfaith Movement. I present the Honorable Sidney S. Byron. These are Commissioner Shirley's remarks. It's a delight and a pleasure to participate in the exercises of Interfaith Day, both as a citizen and as the Commissioner of Commerce of the great City of New York. As a citizen, I subscribe to the ideals of the Interfaith Movement and sincerely hope to see its influence deepen and widen until it envelops every person in our beloved city. Because of the work of Interfaith, hearts will ever be warmer. Business and civic relations will be far more pleasant. And the lives of all will be happier. And New York City will be an even better place in which to live and to work. Certainly, if courtesy oils the wheels of progress, mutual respect and understanding will still more facilitate that progress and make the journey forward both joyful and worthwhile. The fruitful work of Interfaith makes my job as Commissioner of Commerce easier, more constructive, and more successful as time goes on. By direction of Mayor Impeletere, I am constantly seeking to sell this rich and wondrous town to people and industry elsewhere, inviting them to come and establish themselves here. New York offers them many advantages, facilities, and opportunities that are to be found nowhere else in the world. But great as are the material benefits which I can happily point out to the industrialists and businessmen with whom I deal, I am even happier to be able to offer them something far more valuable and enduring. And that is the character and the spirit of the workers and the proprietors of the varied and multifold economic enterprises which all go to make New York City the business and financial capital of the entire world. Here we have a free industrial democracy. Here one finds in labor relations understanding and cooperation between employer and employees and a constant mutual effort that makes for the welfare of all and is typical of all that is best in our American way of life. Yes, Interfaith is an invaluable aid to me and my job of goodwill ambassador. For as Interfaith continues to enkindle and fan the flames of understanding and mutual charity amongst our people, their warm and willing spirit will be manifest to all, an example to all, an invitation and a challenge to all, and the most valuable asset which a Commissioner of Commerce can proudly emphasize to the rest of the nation and the world. Thank you. We next will have a man who needs no introduction to television, radio, or any other audience. He is universal in appeal. I might even say a former school teacher, Samuel Levinson. Thank you. Good afternoon. I think by my stories and by my history you know that I represent a foreign mother and father who came to this country in search of freedom, culture, the right to worship God in their own way. If I could spend just one minute or two upon only one aspect of that, the question of education and culture. My father was ready to die for culture, but he was also ready to kill me for the same thing. If I came home from school with a report card with a B, a B in conduct, Papa says we're going to have a gangster in the family. If you came home with a report card with a 98, Mama says who got the other two points? If you finally produced a report card with a hundred percent, good enough, huh? First, Mama suspected it as a forgery. Who'd you copy from? And even if she did believe it, didn't even look at me, just used to point at me and say, if he could get a hundred, must be some smart glass. What used to drive my poor father raving mad? Eight children, seven sons, everybody going to school, everybody studying, and you can't find a pencil in the house. Whenever you needed a pencil, they started a treasure hunt. Remember where that pencil was? This is very much American. In every American home, no matter what color, creed, nationality, in every American home to this day, there's a certain drawer known as a shame to throw out. You know that drawer? Seven generations of junk and remove one broken zipper. Mama is there, the God of honor. Is it bothering you? Do you have to feed it? Leave it alone. You never can tell. And the stuff that they save, not even the psychiatrist can explain it. Can anybody tell me why normal people save half a scissor? What can you do with half a scissor except stick your eye on? Or a comb without teeth. Maybe a bald-headed man will come. You never can tell. Four empty Vaseline jars. Thirty-two years and you mustn't remove them. My father had an old prescription that the doctor gave him, threw it into the drawer. Never used it. Got healthy without the doctor. But he used the prescription. He used to use it as a pass in the subway. Used to hold it up. Nobody knew what it said. Went to baseball games. For ten years the whole family traveled on the Long Island Railroad with this thing. I say that there's no defender of education. I say this without prejudice. I taught school for twelve years. Didn't make a living, but I taught school. I wanted Mr. Morse to hear that. School teachers, don't applaud. You got your raise. Enough. Let's not spoil it. Tomorrow they'll give you a cut. Behave yourself. There's no defender of education like the old-fashioned mama. The one who came from the other side knows what her children would have had in Europe when she comes to school. When she's called, she comes there to protect the school from her children. The young mother is different. You know the young mother today? See, she's educated. She's just about as educated as the teacher. I saw this young mother registering her five-year-old in school. She turns to the teacher and says, Now Gregory has been brought up very intelligently. She says, If he does anything wrong, hit the child next to him. That'll teach him a lesson. The old-fashioned mother walks in. The first words out of her mouth always were, Tell me, what did he do? I'll smash him two pieces. She walks in. Here's a scene that happened in my class. She walks in. She says to me, What did he do? I told her. She pushes me aside, Mama, so I shouldn't get splattered with blood. She's small and he's a big zhlob, a football player. See? She doesn't look and she doesn't miss. She just swings like that. And he's afraid to get out of the way because if she misses one, he'll get two. And the class loves us, Give him blood. Today it's him, tomorrow it's me. Give him blood. Then like a good lawyer, she summarizes the case against her own child. Gets very dramatic points to him and says to him, Who do you think you are here? The teacher? He doesn't answer. That kind of mother doesn't take no answer for an answer. Answer me, she says. You think you're the teacher here? Answer me. And the whole class is yelling, Answer me. The kid is cornered so he says, No. Then Mom pulls up you, this was for my benefit, she says to him, So if you're not the teacher, so stop behaving like an idiot. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there's more to come. I don't want to abuse the privilege it was given me in coming here as a proud member of my own faith to contribute this little bit to goodwill, understanding of all human beings for each other. God bless you all and thank you. Bye. Sounds like the school days. I must speak of one attraction in particular which preceded this radio program. Mr. Herman Shumlin, well-known producer, presented his cast in a scene from his present Broadway hit, Lace on Her Petticoat. It appeared to me to demonstrate that discrimination can exist, not only between races, but within a particular race or creed itself. We extend our appreciation to Mr. Shumlin and his talented cast. Now I have the great privilege of presenting a well-known attorney with a golden voice. We might well call him New York singing barrister, Mr. Sylvester J. Garimella, who will sing the Lord's Prayer. Mr. Garimella. Mr. Garimella. Our Father He will sing a well-known shooting ge구 as your father, He will sing you with the spirit from just Danielle. We take your hand's dellemaking, And Jesus and his love, Joy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory forever. Amen. Amen. Beautiful. To see a singing attorney is quite different from a singing witness, if you know what I mean. I now have the privilege of presenting the president of the interfaith movement, a well-known community leader. I might say the man most responsible for this program, Mr. Robert Carroll. Reverend members of the clergy, Mr. Chairman, honored guests, and friends of the interfaith movement. Not long ago, a highly placed jurist declared in an opinion that there are no absolutes. In all charity, we must ascribe this grievous error to mundane and muddled thinking. Had he but looked aloft and seen with the eyes of faith the creator who made him, he would have recognized the absolute being. Had he considered beauty, truth, justice, and the charity which is love, he would have arrived at the knowledge of absolutes, which in their perfection are facets of the divine existence. Had he looked upon the fleshy tablets of his own and all men's hearts, he would have seen another absolute, the natural, moral law which God has written thereon, that all his children may be guided in the proper path to their eternal destiny. Man is a creature composed of body and soul, made to the image and likeness of God. God made him to know him, to love him, to serve him in this world, and to be happy with him forever in heaven. On the immortal soul of man, God has bestowed two priceless gifts, an intellect wherewith he may know truth, and which will never be fully satisfied except in the knowledge of perfect truth, which is God himself. A free will which seeks the possession of goodness, and which will rest only in perfect goodness, which is likewise God himself. Early this month, in a conference at a local university, 125 scholars and observers of public affairs devoted themselves to an analysis of the nature of freedom and authority. According to the New York Times, and I quote, Not all agreed that definitions of these two concepts were essential. Those reluctant toward pat definitions tended in general to revert to the approach of Thomas Hobbes, whereby freedom was to be understood primarily in terms of absence of restraint. Close quotation. Hobbes' definition, if put into practice, would logically lead to political, social, economic, and moral anarchy. Freedom is not license. Freedom is the liberty to do the things we should do. Freedom is a God-given right inherent in the nature of man. God has made us not only rational animals, but also moral persons, responsible for our thoughts, words, and deeds. The power to think, to know, and to judge the rightness or the wrongness of human acts has not been altered in any essential respect within the span of human history. Freedom of speech, freedom to earn a decent living, freedom to worship God, and freedom from fear and oppression are from God, and are guaranteed by our glorious Constitution, whose authors were moral and God-loving men. God, in whom all authority resides, has in his loving providence promulgated his moral law for men through the light of human reason. Unless there be any confusion along the way of life, he has made that law explicit in the Ten Commandments, which he gave us through the medium of the saintly leader, Moses. These commandments he has summed up in two. The love of God, who loves us with an infinite love, and the love of our fellow man, because of our love for God, and because he is beloved by God. The virtue of charity is love, and love is the fulfilling of the law. We of interfaith seek to promote mutual respect, understanding, and cooperation between people of goodwill, irrespective of faith, race, or color. Peace can come only to men of goodwill, and goodwill in men can be inspired only by the divine virtue of charity. And so we endeavor to be charitable in thought, word and deed, loving God and loving our fellow man, that all may dwell in peace and harmony, enjoying the freedom that is the essence of our American way of life. There can be no external peace without internal peace. May peace reside within the soul of every American, that he may live in unanimity and charity with his fellow man, making our country a leaven of love, that will restore the world to the freedom and peace of our loving maker. Everything worthwhile, everything that endures, must have a foundation, a background and a spirit that is forceful and productive. I have given you the foundation of the interfaith movement. It is based on the eternal truths and the spiritual nature of man. The background of the interfaith movement is the relationship of man to God as his son. The spirit of the interfaith movement is charity, and the products of that spirit are the mutual respect and understanding which we will ever endeavor to inculcate in the hearts of all of our citizens so that all may be united in a cooperative and patriotic striving for the common good of our beloved country. You are listening to the Interfaith Day Ceremonies on WNYC AM and FM New York. For reading of the scriptures, we shall be privileged to have one of our most distinguished ministers, Dr. Channon H. Tobias. Will you rise, please? Here beginneth the 13th chapter of 1 Corinthians. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. Though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing. Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing. Charity suffereth long, and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself. Charity is not puffed up, doth not, doth not behave itself unseemly, doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail, whether there be tongues, they shall cease, whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away, for we know in part, and we prophesy in part, but when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I became a man, I put away childish things, for now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face, now I know in part, but then shall I know even as also I am known, and now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity. whenever men meet for good works and good deeds, you will find the next speaker, our warm friend, not for the day, but for many years in the interfaith movement, one of our hardest working directors, the Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey, Acting Mayor of the City of New York. Sharkey. Mr. Moss, Reverend Claygy, distinguished guests, and fellow New Yorkers, it is a heartening sight to see so many citizens of this great city and so many children gathered here on the Central Park Mall to commemorate Interfaith Day, a day set aside by proclamation of the governor and the mayor of the city as an opportunity to reaffirm and give living expression and example to the great ideals of equality and brotherhood which are an integral part of our democracy. This great city is composed of almost 8 million people whose families have come from every country in the world. Here in this metropolis has represented every racial strain, every religious group, every color, every creed. A more diverse population could not possibly be imagined. To these shores they have brought all the culture, the folklore, the habits, and even the prejudices of the old world. But it did not take long for them to learn that in this country and particularly in this city there are no classes, there are no superior races, there are no groups entitled to special favors in the eyes of society or the law. That the American ideal of brotherhood is the common denominator that binds us together and fuses us into a new race, a race of Americans who believe in the dignity and waste of the human being, who bring with them the cultures of the old world but discard its prejudices in favor of the ideals of freedom and democracy of the new world. What better example and proof can we give to the world than the unity and friendship that exists in this city between peoples of so many races, origins, and religious beliefs? What greater inspiration can we give to the whole human race than the demonstration of how our people live peacefully and harmoniously together? This city is noted as a religious center. Within its boundaries are thousands of Catholic churches, Protestant churches, and Jewish synagogues, and hundreds of other temples of religion. Here they function openly under a government which allows free and full exercise of religious worship. Here there is no domination or control of religions by any government or group of individuals. Here the cardinal rule of love of our fellow man is not merely a theory but a fact. The essence of our strength is the respect which each man has for the dignity and weight of his neighbor as a human being entitled to his own beliefs and habits without pressure or hatred from those among whom he lives. Let us not delude ourselves by any belief that the unity of our people is not under constant attack by the merchants of hatred, bigotry, and disunity. We must be ever late to meet these treasonable assaults on our ideals and liberties. Our greatest armor against these breaches of venom is the ideal of brotherhood and interfaith which we are paying respect to on this mall today. I congratulate the interfaith movement and the various borough groups of interfaith who labor day in and day out not alone on this day but every day to promote goodwill, friendship, and understanding among our people. The program here today should be an inspiration to all to make interfaith intolerance a daily habit, to resist prejudice and tolerance wherever it rises and strike it down in the name of all that is decent and fair and American. The representatives of the United Nations in this city might well give careful heed to the lessons and ideals which we are teaching here today. There is no reason why nations of different cultures, habits, and creeds cannot live in peace, friendship, and understanding with each other just as their own people live in friendship and goodwill in this country until nations lay in this lesson there can never be any permanent peace for peace can be founded only upon justice and brotherhood and when this ideal is achieved by the nations of the world then the brotherhood of man will reach from the mountaintops to the gray sea sands and the world will be better, I pray. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. A great worker in the field of interfaith work is here with us today and I'm sure you will want to know who he is, Sugar Ray Robinson. Beloved by all who love fair play, Sugar Ray graces us today with his presence. Thank you very much. I would also like to announce the Deputy Police Commissioner Rowe who is noted for his wide communal service is also with us. Commissioner Rowe, would you take a bow, please? I have a treat for you. Will you take the microphone and tell us about it yourself? Thank you and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very happy to have been invited here to this interfaith rally and coming from a very religious family, I feel that everyone has faith in some supreme being and I sincerely feel that the best way to bring about a universal peace is through religion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sugar Ray is good at everything. Now we have the song The Lord is My Light to be sung by Mr. Grant Garnell. Mr. Garnell. The Lord is my light and my salvation Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life The Lord is the strength of my life Of whom then shall I be afraid? Though an host of men Are laid against me Yet shall not my heart be afraid And though there was a power Against me Yet will I put my trust In him For in the time of trouble He shall hide me In his tabernacle Yea, in the secret places Of his dwelling Shall he hide me Shall he hide me And set me up Set me up Upon a rock Of stone The Lord is my light The Lord is my light And my salvation Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? The Lord is The Lord is the strength of my life Of whom then shall I be afraid? Of whom then shall I be afraid? Distinguished as a civic and fraternal leader, his entire life a worker in communal fields of all faiths, it was only appropriate that for the next part of this program I call upon our Deputy Mayor, the Honorable Charles Horowitz. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege to now read to you the Interfaith Oath. I will discriminate against no man by reason of his faith or creed. I will daily deal with every man in business and social and political relations only on the basis of his true individual worth. I will never try to indict a whole people by reason of the derelictions of any individual. I will utter no rumor and no slander against any saint. In my conduct, I will consecrate myself hour by hour and day by day to the achievement, in fact, of the highest ideals of the dignity of man, human equality, human fellowship, and human brotherhood. I will never try to indict a whole person. The next rendition will be by Miss Joan Francis of the Philadelphia Civic Opera Company. Miss Frances. Steve Shaldane The sea is a kind of fire On the extreme, but with the wind of the sea And then the sea appears The sea is a kind of fire I don't know how to get into the sea I'm in the sea of the sea I'm in the sea, I'm in the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I'm out of the sea I'm out of the sea I'm out of the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I'm in the sea I'm out of the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea I don't know how to get into the sea Nevcina mogliathina A letter of my pen In the name that gave me his name All this I have promised In the sky, the sky Because the car of the city The city The demand is great for an encore But we do not have sufficient radio time We must go on with the program There are some important messages from the President of the United States And the Governor of the State of New York I would like to ask Mr. John Ross, Assistant Attorney General And Chairman of the Board of Directors of Interfaith Movement To present them, Mr. Ross I shall first give a message from the President of the United States Greetings and cordial good wishes To those who are gathered to celebrate Interfaith Day in 1951 I join with you in giving thanks to a bountiful Providence Which has endowed the people of our country With a love of freedom That enables us to live with one another In mutual respect And has aroused us to mobilize the forces of freedom Throughout the world To resist tyranny and aggression Signed, Harry S. Truman President of the United States The next is a message from the Governor of the State of New York Today, as the free world unites To combat the threat of Communist aggression It is more timely than ever before That we at home show our devotion to the cause of freedom By celebrating Interfaith Day Peace among nations And triumph over godless communism Can only be achieved Through increased understanding And cooperation among free peoples Regardless of race, color, or creed To reach this objective To reach this objective We must first strengthen the fundamental principles Of our free republic among our own peoples Interfaith Day can give the world A concrete living example That here in the United States We know the true meaning of freedom And that we respect the right of all human beings To worship God in their own fashion And through their own creed This is vitally important today When evil forces are trying to destroy freedom And to enslave the free peoples of the world May the Interfaith Day celebration in New York City Be a truly great spiritual success And an inspiration to all the world Signed, Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of New York We are grateful to President Truman and Governor Dewey For their warm messages And now we have with us again The delightful Brooklyn Post Office Gleet Club Directed by Bob Nicosia The first song will be Battle Hymn of the Republic The writing music рекlie The cathedral Said feeling in book Governor thePad Fine eyes will sing the glory of the coming of the Lord The glory of the coming of the Lord He is trampling out the vindictive Where the graves of wrath are stored He has moved to faith for lightning All his parables with storm His truth is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah His truth is marching on I have seen him in the watch wires of a hundred cycling caps They have built in him an altar in the evening doves and dams I can see his righteous sentence by the dim and burning lamps His day is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah His truth is marching on In the beauty of the village Christ was born across the sea With the glory is his wisdom that transfigures you and me As he died to make men holy Let us die to make men free While God is marching on Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah Glory, glory, hallelujah His truth is marching on is watching on the land. So sorry that Radio Time does not permit any further numbers. I should like to present for a bow Judge Edward McCullen, who was former chairman of the board of Interfaith Movement, and was here. Mr. Rudd, representing Walter O'Malley of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and Assemblyman Bernie Austin. And now, now it is always a privilege to me to present Dr. DeSola Poole. I should like him very much to be with us in the benediction, Dr. Poole. May the Lord God, our Father, bless us all, bless us all alike. For we are all his children, for he is the Father, the one Father of us all. For he is the Father, the one Father of us all. May he bless you... Regrettably, owing to other commitments, we must now leave the Interfaith Day ceremonies, which your city station has been airing for the past hour, from the Mall and Central Park. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Let's ride... ... ... ... ... ...