Beyond Victory Beyond Victory is presented each week by the Worldwide Broadcasting Foundation and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace to assist radio listeners everywhere to a clearer view of current world affairs and our complicated international problems. This program is the second in a series of broadcasts prepared by the Foreign Policy Association on the strategic and economic problems of certain regions of critical importance in today's world. One country of great importance is Canada, our good neighbor to the north. Mr. Grant S. McClellan, Research Associate of the Foreign Policy Association who specializes in problems concerning Great Britain and the British Commonwealth will speak to us today on Canada, a middle power in the United Nations. He will be interviewed by Mr. Robert Stackhouse of the Worldwide Staff. Mr. Stackhouse. Mr. McClellan, I think it would be well for me to ask you first about certain basic contrasts between Canada and the United States. Canada is not, I know, merely a land of the midnight sun, half British and half American, and it is not a country populated chiefly by Eskimos, the mounted police and trappers on snowshoes, as Hollywood has sometimes indicated. But just what is the true picture of Canada? These are parts of the Canadian scene to be sure, Mr. Stackhouse. But basically, Canada is a vast continental country with a very small population. It is larger than the United States in area and is, in fact, next after China and the Soviet Union, the largest country in the world. However, its population numbers only about 11 million and a half. What about the distribution of that population, Mr. McClellan? Most Canadians live near the border between Canada and the United States. That fact stands out. Canada's industry is also concentrated in the same area. One other important fact about Canada's population is its mixed character. Like the United States, Canada is a melting pot. But about one-third of the population, or roughly three and a half million, is a French stock, French-speaking Canadians. Before asking you about French Canada and its problems, Mr. McClellan, will you tell us something of the development of Canadian industry? Yes, that is a long story. But you will be interested, I am sure, to learn that Canada's industry forged ahead significantly during the war. As our own war production got underway, and even earlier, Canada was supplying war materials for the Allies. Its industrial output more than doubled during the war. On that score, just how did Canada rank among the United Nations as a supplier of war materials? In round figures, Canada ranked fourth as a producer of munitions during the war. That figure is only one of the statistics Canadians are proud to announce. Canada is, of course, still a great agricultural state, one of the top-ranking wheat producers. Its industry, its foreign trade, and its interest in aviation, which is very keen in Canada, have demonstrated that the country is no small nation, as we use the term to distinguish between the big three and smaller countries. Canadians like to think of themselves today as a middle power. That is an interesting term, Mr. McClellan. What do Canadians mean by referring to their nation as a middle power? Chiefly, Mr. Stackhouse, I think they realize that Canada lies between the great powers in a geographical sense. But politically and economically, they are bound to the British Commonwealth. Similar ties with the United States are also close. Russia, however, lies to the north across the polar regions. Canada is middle way between the big three. I can see, then, why Canada has taken a keen interest in the development of aviation. That is right. Canada lies astride most of the great circle routes to the north. Future developments in aviation, obviously, will bring Canada to the forefront in international negotiations dealing with air traffic. Canada, too, as I have said, has made significant strides in the industrial field. Its trade and industry give Canada a stature which is, I think, characterized very well by the term middle power. Its air force also ranked just below that of the big three during the war. You mentioned, Mr. McClellan, Canada's close ties with the British Commonwealth. Just what is Canada's internal governmental structure? Is it like our own? Canada does have a federal government, although it is different in many ways from our own. The British North American Act of 1867, which is, for all intents and purposes, the Canadian Constitution, provided a federal union for Canada. It is a framework by which the various sections of the country and the two linguistic groups in Canada have been knit together. Have Canadians, then, been troubled with the critical issue of states' rights under their federal system as we have? They have been troubled, but they have never been drawn into a civil war on this issue. Even today, the problem of the relation between the Dominion government and the provincial governments is acute. Under our own Constitution, as you know, all powers not delegated to the government in Washington are reserved to the states. The reverse is true in Canada, where specific powers only are delegated to the provinces. The federal government was designed originally, then, as a means whereby French and English-speaking Canadians could live together. Is that correct? Yes. The federal government, or the federal system in Canada, was originally devised with the linguistic division in Canada very much in mind. That system has persisted until the present and will continue. There are many points of friction today between the two groups in Canada. Not all of them will be resolved quickly. Different cultural backgrounds divide the French-speaking Canadians from their English-speaking groups. Different religions and different educational standards also are maintained. In general, Canadians of both groups are fully aware of the friction that exists, and this is hopeful, for they are thus able, however slowly, to deal with it openly. The war situation highlighted their differences, largely because of the stand against conscription which many French Canadians in Quebec adopted. At the same time, the war brought further industrialization to the French-speaking areas. It also brought a heightened sense among all groups that Canadian meant a distinct nationality. This increased sense of common nationality, or citizenship, will aid Canada in avoiding any open ruptures between the two groups. How do you think the average Canadian likes current social and political developments in the United States and Britain? That is a large order, Mr. Stackhouse. First, I think we should realize that Canada, by and large, has accomplished the task of reconversion with fewer economic disturbances than we have. If the average Canadian thinks about us at all, I am sure that he is aware that his own cost of living has been kept on a more even keel than our own. Canada is especially sensitive to our economic developments, and it is only by retaining more wartime controls over their economy than we have, that prices have not risen so much there. I dare say that they are very perturbed by our runaway prices. They know that if a depression comes here, they will be affected adversely, very soon, and very seriously. And what of Britain? Canadians watch Britain closely. They are interested in the policies of the Labour government in England, but I doubt that Canadians in the majority are in favor of such socialism as the Labourites are introducing in Britain. But that leads me to the question of Canada's own political situation. Yes. What about the CCF party in Canada? Is it a socialist party? Yes. The Cooperative Commonwealth Federation Party, or the CCF, is moderately socialist. Several such parties emerged during the Depression years in Canada. The CCF remains as the only one of national importance. It is, as you may know, the party in power in the provincial government of Saskatchewan. I am sure that we will hear more of the CCF in Canada. In the federal government, in Ottawa, of course, Mackenzie King and the Liberal Party are in control. There is, however, a Conservative Party in Canada, too, is there not? Yes, although the Conservatives have lately more often called themselves progressive Conservatives. Traditionally, they have favored higher tariffs and closer ties with the British Empire. The Liberals and Mackenzie King, on the other hand, have been the low-tariff group, and they have favored greater independence from Britain and freedom of action in the British Commonwealth. Canada, with one short period as an exception, has been governed by the Liberal Party since World War I. This entire period will undoubtedly be known in Canadian history as the Mackenzie King era. You mentioned again the Canadian relationship with the British Commonwealth of Nations, Mr. McClellan. Will you explain that relationship more fully? This is most important because so many people do not understand the structure and operation of the British Commonwealth of Nations. It is, however, no simple matter to explain briefly. Let me just be blunt in my answers and ask you to remember that certain qualifications, certain fine legal refinements might be made to what I say. Canada is fully independent. The nations of the Commonwealth, like Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and the others, are bound to Britain only by certain ties of tradition and by allegiance to the same king. The Canadian government, its parliament, and its cabinet are completely free from the British government. Precisely. The king is king in Canada, by which I mean that the government in Canada, theoretically speaking, advises the king how to govern Canada. The Canadian cabinet and parliament actually govern Canada, therefore, just as the cabinet and parliament govern in England. This is perhaps a fine point. I have found so often, however, that many people believe Canada pays taxes to England, that its foreign policy and domestic legislation are determined in London. Nothing is further from the truth. But you mentioned Canada's close ties to England, Mr. McClellan. How does that square with what you have just said? That is a fair question. The British Commonwealth is not a tight unit of all the British nations. All of them do confer regularly on broad trends in foreign policy, on military affairs, and on trade relations. But similarly, Canada also has close ties with the United States. We have replaced Britain as Canada's chief source of imports. And for many years now, the United States has been Canada's chief customer. The recent combined military operations, Operation Musk Ox, which America and Canada have undertaken in North Canada, also indicates the close ties between the two North American neighbors. Canada's status in relation to Britain is one that the statute of Westminster has defined as that of a co-equal. Under that act of the British Parliament, passed in 1931, the British Commonwealth emerged as an association of free nations. Canada, I may add, has been especially jealous of its independence and freedom of action. Mackenzie King has long stood for Canada's right to determine for itself every policy which the country adopts. Thank you, Mr. McClellan. There are just two other questions in which our listeners might be interested. First, what of American-Canadian relations? Again, that would take a long answer if I were to deal with it adequately. Let me just remind you that except for some early disputes, we have had a long tradition of friendly relations. We shall undoubtedly continue on these terms. During the war, we cooperated extensively in many areas. You will recall President Roosevelt's declaration before the war about this country's keen interest in Canada's defense. In trade and in industry, the two countries are mutually bound in many ways. I am interested in what you have said about Canada's insistence on its independence. Thus, my last question is, how do Canadians feel about the United Nations organization? Canada is vitally interested in the United Nations and its many related organizations. She has played a prominent part in bringing them into being. You know also that Canada is represented on the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, which operates under the Security Council. Here again, Canada's position as a middle power in world affairs is important. Because of its central geographic location among the big three, and because it would obviously be involved in any future conflict among the great powers, Canada has sought to strengthen the United Nations. It will continue, I am sure, to pull its full load in all international negotiations to establish and maintain a stable peace. Thank you, Mr. McClellan, and thank you, Mr. Stackhouse. This Beyond Victory program has been the second in a series of broadcasts on regional problems in different parts of the world and was presented through the cooperation of the Foreign Policy Association. Beyond Victory has been on the air each week for more than three years and comes to you over your local station through an arrangement with the Worldwide Broadcasting Foundation and the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. It is presented in the hope that it will help us to a better understanding of international problems so vital to America's future in world affairs. Now, you can have a part in this educational radio undertaking. The letters and contributions of you, our listeners, and of many public-spirited organizations make this work possible. Address us through your local station or direct to the Worldwide Broadcasting Foundation, Bankers Trust Building, 598 Madison Avenue, New York 22, New York. Listen in again next week at this same time to Beyond Victory. Thank you.