Ah, pretty country, Mary. Makes a fella proud to be an American. It's beautiful, Tom. Be careful with your cigarette, dear. Swell day for an outing, all right. Sun shining, everything clear and dry. Perfect. Tom, please be careful with that cigarette. What gravy, Mary? What's got into you? Well, you know what Smokey says. What are you talking about? Who's Smokey? You know, dear, Smokey Bear. The fire-preventing bear, they call him. The what? You've seen him, Tom, on those posters in the streetcars and store windows and the like. Well, Smokey says to use your ashtray. Oh, that's just an advertising gag, honey. It doesn't mean a thing. Last year, Smokey was down on his knees praying. He was saying, please make people careful. Amen. You know, Tom, that's something to think about. Rot. Look, Mary, we came out here today to enjoy ourselves. We can have fun and still be careful, Tom. And as for Smokey... As for Smokey, forget about him. He's just your imagination working over time. Well, here we are. Let's see, honey. We'll build our fire right here. Yep. Oh, boy, this is the life. Well, I guess I'll light up my pipe first, huh? Tom, you pick up that match and break it in two. Smokey says that... Oh, good gravy. Oh, what a day. Hasn't it been swell, Mary? Boy, the chow was great. And that little nap I had was just right. Well, honey, I guess we'd better roll along before it gets too dark. All set? We'd better be sure the fire is completely out, dear. Huh? Say, your voice sounds funny. You feel all right, honey? It's just your imagination, dear. I feel fine. Now, about the fire. Smokey says... Smokey can go to blazes. That fire's almost out. It's safe enough. Come on. Arr! Not so fast, bud. Hey, what goes on here? Were you all dressed up in that monkey suit? That's no monkey, Tom. That's Smokey Bear. What? You heard the little lady. I'm Smokey Bear. And that fire of yours needs fixing, mister. Say, what's the gag? Mary, what kind of a trick is this, anyway? I don't know what you're talking about, Tom. This is Smokey Bear. And he says you ought to put that fire out. And I think you'd better do it, dear. Well, he can't make me. I won't do it. Arr! Seems like some folks have to learn the hard way. Hey, you stay away from me. I'll keep away. Mary, call him off. You'd better do what Smokey says, dear. All right, I'll do it. I'll do it, but just keep away from me, you, you, you, Smokey. Well, that's better. And I'd use plenty of water, mister. Yeah, I know what I'm doing. He's all right now, Smokey. You do a good job, I know. I'm not really a mean fellow. All I can do is try and make people think a bit about being careful. You know, with their matches and smokes and campfires and brush fires. You've made me think, Smokey. Thank you, ma'am. There's a big job still to do. If folks would just realize that nine out of every ten forest fires are man-caused, and the outlook for this year is none too good. You know something? Yes, Smokey? Another 30 million acres will burn this year unless folks are careful. Yes, Tom, unless you are careful. Hey, you stay away from me. The fire's out dead on. Mary, call him off. Mary, please. Please, Mary. Tom, for heaven's sake, stop it, dear. Stop it. Hey, where's that... What in the world, Tom? You must have been dreaming. Oh, my head. Well, I shouldn't wonder. With all that food you put away. Well, it's late, dear. We ought to leave. Oh, I gotta put that campfire out first. I gotta be sure, honey, not leave a spark. Why, Tom, that's wonderful. But I've already put it out. Huh? I soaked it good with water. Just like Smokey says to do it. Oh, yeah. Smokey Bear. Hmm. Quite a character, that Smokey. Do you know what the forest means to our community? Let's have the roll call. First, there's the sawmill whistle. Another load of logs has been brought in from the forest. And here's the saw at the mill, changing the logs into lumber for homes, furniture, and countless other uses. Everyone knows that sound. Another sale rung up. Yes, forest industry means much to this community. Jobs, products, and payroll. And when fire strikes the forest, it also strikes at our jobs, products, and payrolls. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Hear that wind? Well, that's a warning. The grass and woods are pretty dry. So, friends, if you're planning to do any brush or field burning, hold up a bit, will you? Wait until weather conditions are better. Don't burn grass or brush on a dry, windy day. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Are you planning to burn grass, fence rows, or trash? Well, here are some valuable tips from your local fire warden. Better check on the law. If you need a burning permit, get one. Pick out a day when there's no wind. The early evening is usually the best time to burn. Always have plenty of tools, water, and help handy. When you leave, be sure your fire is dead out. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Another 30 million acres will burn this year, unless you are careful. Remember, friends, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Arrgh! Hold your match until it's cold. Then break it in two and pinch the burned end to make sure it's dead out. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Arrgh! Crush out your cigarette, cigar, and pipe ashes. When driving through the forest, always use your ashtray. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Arrgh! Drown your campfire, then stir and drown it again. Make sure your campfire is dead out. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Arrgh! Before you burn any grass, fence rows, or trash, you better ask about the law. Then have plenty of tools, water, and help handy. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Smokey, the fire-preventing bear says... Hear that wind? It's making the woods and forests mighty dry. Be careful with fire. Put out every match. Crush out every cigarette. Drown out every fire. Use your ashtray every trip. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. Do you know the size of the average football playing field? Well, it's just about one acre. And do you know how many acres of forest land will burn over this year unless you are careful? 30 million acres. The equivalent of 30 million football playing fields. Remember, only you can prevent forest fires. 45 million acres. 18 million acres. 47 million acres. classical music. The road opener is giving out forbakary看看 every day. We cannot mistake our atmosphere is but the best way of the harvest that's real. The em Cartoon is giving out of the sizable and just with aheres. And vice versa. 46 million acres. Unfortunately, we cannot demonstrate about two indicators. The end of the season is the same we ever could come across from there. To prakt allí is just a little bit, you have to wait. To find whereofap in theاء. We'll berez in the town. Just so that we have left theain set on the carne. Of ourstone trees have broken things. It almost barks as a little bit of the men цвет. I think about it. Looking up for thatبدок of our project demos.