Stay tuned for a special forum discussion on communications and world understanding. First, a special program reminder. Through the ages, men have tried to tear aside the cloak of time that veils the future. They have depended upon a wide range of omens, signs, and symbols for their predictions. But when Drew Pearson makes his predictions of things to come, he bases them on just one thing, a firm foundation of well-established facts. Through years of study, he has gained a comprehensive knowledge of political and diplomatic developments. For the far-seeing analysis of a veteran observer on the national and international scene, hear Drew Pearson tomorrow night on ABC Radio. How radio, television, magazines, newspapers, and films are helping you and me to live in a world of greater understanding and interest will be discussed during the next half hour by such outstanding persons as the Honorable C. Elmer Anderson, Governor of Minnesota, Carol Barnder, U.S. Delegate to the United Nations Committee on Freedom of Information and the Press and Noted Newspaper Man, Dr. James L. Morrill, President, University of Minnesota, John Mayer, President, Minnesota Broadcasters Association, Federal Judge Luther Youngdahl, Former Governor of Minnesota, York Langton, President, Minnesota Association for the United Nations, Mrs. Hiram Houghton, Past President, General Federation of Women's Clubs, and foreign students chosen from Minnesota universities and colleges. Dorothy Lewis, United Nations Radio, will serve as moderator. This transcribed broadcast comes to you from the University of Minnesota, climaxing a two-year communications campaign, during which time 10,000 local leaders in 250 American cities have reached 20 million persons with information about the United Nations and international understanding. In the audience at Scott Hall are students in costume from many governments and distinguished leaders who are attending the General Federation of Women's Clubs. Now we present Dorothy Lewis, moderator. Thank you. It is said that one of the Indian tribes of Minnesota has a five-point compass, one for north, east, and west, and one for where you are. And certainly all eyes during communications week are turned toward Minnesota and the pioneering they have done for peace through the communications campaign. In the early days, communications consisted of sign language and smoke signals. Today, transportation and communication have changed the pattern of living. Radio particularly is significant as a medium because it reaches the illiterate as well as the educated in all languages and dialects. Someone has said that the world is now a neighborhood. It is not yet a brotherhood. That is the challenge that confronts us, and we can use radio as a medium of reaching those people because we are only a seventh of a second apart where neighbors over have a frequency back then. Today, the repertorial voice of United Nations Radio reaches all member states with daily news on its global front, news of interest to all citizens. We have a problem of building the peace. It's a new challenge. We've never done it before. This is the people's peace. The Charter of the United Nations reads, We the peoples. And so within the United Nations is a division devoted to the people's interest, the non-governmental organizations. These people are using tools of media to inform the public, a citizen's real and important responsibility. But of this, we shall tell you more, how they're doing it, where they're doing it. But now, may I introduce to you the distinguished president of a great university, Dr. James L. Morrow. The sum total of the common sense of the common people is the greatest and soundest force on earth. The author of these words, it was Thomas Jefferson, third president of the United States and spokesman of education as the undergirding of democracy. And the meaning of these words in the context of this broadcast, simply this. The people of the world, however widely separated in terms of distance, custom, or belief, cherish common basic hopes and aspirations which require the widest communication for their realization. The document which embodies the declaration of these common desires is the Charter of the United Nations with the General Assembly of the United Nations pledged to their accomplishment. In letter and in spirit, the UN Charter is democratic. As such, it derives its powers from the people who subscribe to its articles. Dictatorship and diplomacy can constrain and check these powers as we know in some parts of the world today, but the promise is still cherished in the hearts of humankind. To fulfill this promise, we must therefore endow it with the indomitable force referred to by Jefferson, the sum total of the common sense of the common people. Common sense is based on facts. Facts about the United Nations are abundantly provided by the widespread and intensive program of public information conducted by the UN throughout the world. Through the United Nations radio and through the other media employed by the UN Information Center, you and I are invited to take part in the most momentous discussions in the history of the world. It is an invitation we cannot refuse. We meet then here today to reassert the principle of free men, world citizens free to speak and listen and learn, free to understand and to decide, free men acting democratically on the basis of available and relevant facts. Freedom of information is the best bulwark of common sense, the cornerstone of good faith and goodwill in democratic world cooperation. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Morrill. As president of the University of Minnesota, you have demonstrated your interest in this broad field of international understanding. And now we are very honored, indeed, to have a message from Governor the Honorable Elmer Anderson, a Republican and a man who succeeded the former Governor Jungdahl when he left to take the judgeship in Washington. We are happy, indeed, to bring to you the Honorable Governor Anderson. Minnesota is proud of the fact that its citizens and broadcasters have pioneered a pattern of communications that has been extended to 250 major United States cities and will be used in other areas of the world for the purpose of bringing official United Nations broadcasts to millions. The campaign, which was originated in our state in 1950, has been promoted by 25 major national organizations and 10,000 of their local leaders using newspapers, magazines, films, display, radio, and TV to apprise the public of what the United Nations is doing throughout the world. In these times, it is essential that the public be fully aware of the positive, constructive things that are being accomplished every day in the United Nations 60 member states. things that are often overshadowed by the political angles, yet that affect your lives and mine and those of millions everywhere. Thank you, Governor Anderson. In a recent report of UNESCO, we found some rather interesting figures. The world population is now placed at 2,379,000,000 persons. And for these people, there are 223,000, I should say, 223 million copies of newspapers each day, 181 million radio receiving sets, and 42 million seats in cinema theaters. This all gives us a great challenge as to what we are using on these facilities. We find, too, in this report that it is a challenging fact where literacy is high, communication facilities are few. The world average of illiteracy is 51% throughout the world. Now, we have, as our next speaker, a man who is noted in the field of communications. Mr. Carol Binder, editor of Minneapolis Tribune, has been reporting and interpreting world affairs for 30 years. He speaks from first-hand acquaintance with many countries and close observation of many events. He is a member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on Freedom of Information and the United States National Commission for UNESCO. Mr. Binder. Not long before he died, the famous South African statesman, Jan Smuts, said, this is the most fateful hour in a thousand years. The man who played such an important role in the creation of both the League of Nations and the United Nations meant that the decisions our generation is called upon to make will have more far-reaching consequences than those any preceding generation has had to make for ten centuries. Whether there is another world war and another dark age or men find ways of living together in peace, security, and freedom is being decided here and now. It is not being decided solely by a few statesmen or even a few nations. Many wills enter into the making of this fateful decision, your will and mine among them, your country's will as well as other countries' wills. To make wise decisions, individuals and nations must have correct information about each other. They must know what governments and peoples really think and do as distinguished from what they are said to think and do. Such indispensable knowledge can be obtained only if there is a free flow of information between peoples. Accurate information about what goes on abroad is more important than at any time in history. Unfortunately, it is more difficult to obtain than at any time since modern communications were developed. While the radio, telephone, and airplane have been eliminating barriers to quick communication, a number of governments have been raising barriers to the exchange of correct information. As a result of these barriers, the people of the United States know much less about what is going on in vast areas of the world such as Russia, China, and Eastern Europe than they knew when I first became a foreign correspondent nearly 30 years ago. The people of those countries have a more distorted idea of what the United States is doing and would like to do than ever before. This is a dangerous state of affairs for all. It creates dangerous misunderstandings and fears. It permits evil governments to bring the world dangerously close to total war. It prevents peacefully disposed governments from making just and lasting settlements. These barriers to the free flow of information prevent the United Nations, mankind's greatest hope of peace with security, freedom, and justice, from mobilizing the forces of collective security with maximum effectiveness. They prevent the United Nations from acquainting people living under censorship with United Nations' decisions affecting their well-being. There is no more important task today than lowering these dangerous barriers to the free flow of information and increasing the volume and quality of news available to the peoples of the world. It has been my privilege to have a small part in the effort to lower those barriers through international compacts. We have not made much progress in the United Nations because we have been opposed by governments which do not believe the people should know anything they do not find it convenient to have known. But we at least have put those governments on the defensive. They are trying to persuade people that freedom is dangerous. They are trying to persuade people that the censorship they practice and the indoctrination in which they engage are for the purpose of promoting friendly relations between nations. This is not true and we are trying to make that clear to people living in countries practicing censorship and controlling what people are permitted to know. It is hard to convey such ideas to people living under censorship but radios of the free world have been able to penetrate police states with their uncensored broadcasts. The United Nations has formally condemned jamming of foreign broadcasts a proposal I had the honor of introducing in the United Nations. It is hard also to obtain information from countries excluding independent correspondents or severely restricting what correspondents may learn and transmit. But people on our side of the Iron Curtain know much more about what goes on behind the curtain than totalitarian governments wish them to know. Much valuable information is obtained by discerning observers stationed at key observation points on this side of the Iron Curtain who study what is printed and said behind the curtain and talk with those coming out from behind the curtain. This is less satisfactory and more difficult than if correspondents could report freely as police state correspondents may do from the United States. But it is much better than being dependent upon what dictatorial governments wish to be believed about them without independent verification. The United Nations was founded on the principle of the people's right to know, to speak, and to publish freely. The United Nations must be kept faithful to these basic human rights. Otherwise, the lights will go out in country after country and a new dark age will set in for humanity. There will be nothing ahead for mankind but the night. To prevent such a catastrophe, everyone should join in the effort to remove barriers to the free flow of information. It is your cause as well as mine. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Carol Bonder. And now we bring you a very interesting feature of this broadcast which is a short discussion by some students, foreign students, on the campuses of Minnesota University and College. And first, I would like to present to you Mr. Emanuel, Peter, DC, the Karnaki, of the Gold Coast, West Africa. And, Emanuel, I'd like to ask you this question. Do you have many radio stations, newspapers, and magazines in your country? Yes, we have quite a lot of them. Well, now, what do you mean by that? How many radio stations, for example? We have one main radio station in the capital city with so many distribution stations around the country. And do you have many receiving sets in your country? Yes, we have for those who can afford them. And then, do you have any community receiving sets in villages so that the people can listen in communities? Yes, it's a very fine site to see them every afternoon gathered around the stations listening to the news. Well, now, on those radio stations, do you get information about world affairs and do you get United Nations broadcasts, for example? Yes, we get everything right from the BBC and so all these things are included. In other words, you get most of your information through the BBC? Most of them. I believe you get some United Nations broadcasts through the BBC, too. Yes, we do. And how about magazines and newspapers? Do they carry much international news? They do. We have the daily newspapers, which carry almost every news that comes on during the day. And then we have some magazines, too, which are imported from foreign countries. I see. Well, now, you think that there could be more and better systems of communication? That is, you could have more programs and more information on international affairs through your magazines and newspapers? Exactly. You do think so? Do you think your people would be interested in it? Yes, I do think they would be interested. Do you think they're more interested than they were, say, 10 or 15, 20 years ago? Exactly. They are. Why? Because, from what I read from the newspapers, I think they are getting more interested in things outside the country than they used to be. Well, that's very interesting. We thank you so much for participating in this broadcast, and we hope we can talk further with you in some future date. And now, we bring another student and our last member of the panel here who comes to us from Syria, Bahiaz al-Hakim. Let me ask you this question, may I? And I should ask you to pronounce your name because I know I didn't do it right. Let's hear you say it. Bahiaz al-Hakim. Oh, it's so much more attractive, and I never could conquer that one. Let me ask you this. What other ways do you think we can develop for promoting international understanding? What other techniques? Well, I'll suggest one, one that you're very used to, and that is the student exchange. I was just going to mention that because I came on here on a deal like this. I came as a student exchange, and I think that's one of the best ways that we have. Another way is also, I think, traveling for people to know each other. That's the only way and best way, I think, to remove any kind of misunderstanding, going to the country itself and meeting the people, the real people, not the people that you find only in university or any set group. Well, now, do you feel that when you go back to your country, that you will be inspiring more interest in international affairs because of your experience in knowing students and knowing people from all over the world? I hope so. Otherwise, I think I would have failed in some of the mission I came for in here. Well, that's a very interesting viewpoint and a very important one because when you think of the thousands of students that have come here from all over the world and students that are going from, say, the United States to other parts of the world, if we should develop a system of communication whereby they used newspaper, magazine, radio, it would be most helpful. We thank you very much for this participation on the part of Syria in this short roundtable discussion. And now, I want to introduce to you a very important woman. She comes from Iowa. You know, they tell a story about a woman in Iowa who was caught one day by her minister reading a newspaper, listening to her radio and her rural telephone. And she wasn't a bit embarrassed and she said, I have to keep up with what's going on in the world. Now, this person that I'm going to introduce to you now not only keeps up with the world, she sets a pace for everyone else. She is none other than the immediate past president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, Mrs. Haram C. Houghton. Mrs. Houghton. Thank you very much, Dorothy Lewis. I'm very much impressed and touched this morning by looking at this audience. We range in years, I know, from seven to 70. And sitting in Scott Hall, the sun pouring in the windows in the heart of America and a great university with many foreign students with us, sitting in costume in the audience and also on the platform, I can't help but think what a gorgeous piece of work we're doing here for world understanding. You know, we talk so much about saving the world, but we talk so little about understanding the world. And here is a beautiful sight of students from all over the world trying to learn to know each other. and that's the only way that we can build for an everlasting peace. The General Federation of Women's Clubs, with its membership of 11 million women, has been privileged to participate in this unique project to bring to the attention of the American public the day-to-day events of the United Nations through official broadcasts. We have been one of the 25 major national organizations to participate in the United Nations communications campaign, which has reached 20 million persons since January, with information about where they may hear official United Nations broadcasts. From my observations, after really taking four world cooperation tours during my administration, one to Europe, one to the Near East, one to Guatemala, Mexico, and then we spent all month of January in South America, I realized how important it is for the peoples of the world to have accurate information about affairs and events that affect their very lives. I've observed the work of the United Nations in various countries, and when we've asked our friends living across the seas about what they think about the United Nations, if they haven't always been too enthusiastic, it has not been a matter of any opposition, but usually lack of knowledge about the United Nations. It hasn't come into their lives. They don't feel close to it. You remember years ago of hearing about Abraham Lincoln saying about a certain man, you know, I don't like that man. I must learn to know him better. That's true between individuals and it's so true between nations. Learning to know them better will bring about an understanding that will build for an everlasting peace. And that's why I'm so delighted to see the students here and realizing that we have many American students in their colleges and universities. This is the very thing that builds bridges of understanding between nations of this world. And so I beg of you all to use the media of communications, radio, television, newspapers, magazines, in order that we may learn to know each other, speak the same international language, understand each other's problems, raise the standard of living, stamp out disease, pestilence, yes, ignorance, all the things that exist, in order we can live together as one family of freedom-loving nations. Thank you, Mrs. Houghton. You are a world citizen. We've been honored to have the General Federation of Women's Clubs participate in this great project, and other groups such as the Church Women, Rotary, the National Education Association, the American Library Association, they all have been active. And magazine articles have been carried in all their trade magazines through on the national level and on the local level. And now, we're very happy to have a message from the man who really sparked this campaign, the former governor, Luther Jungdall, now judge, when he put on all the stations in Minnesota in 1950, talking about the greatest story being told. Judge Jungdall. It is with a great sense of satisfaction that I participate in this broadcast celebrating United Nations Communications Week in Minnesota. That the project we developed here in 1950 has been expanded to all parts of America is rewarding, and the prospect of its extension overseas is a matter of pride to our leadership. The pioneer work of Mrs. George B. Palmer, the Minnesota Association for United Nations and the Minnesota Broadcasters Association has set standards for intelligent, cooperative efforts in the interest of peace. We need to have the facts, not rumors. The United Nations is a parliament of nations, a common council dedicated to solving common problems of mankind. Membership in the United Nations does not require sacrifice of sovereignty on the part of its member governments. The United Nations does not expect that its emblem fly above the stars and stripes or any other national flag, but rather beside it when proper occasions occur. We must remember that the United Nations is a great hope of millions of persons living in less favored countries. Its work has already changed their lives and will do so for unborn millions. The success of the United Nations is our responsibility as citizens of the most enlightened and prosperous country in the world. and now we bring you a brief message from the president of the Minnesota Broadcasters Association, Mr. John Mayer, who two years ago took the initiative to bring to the people of his state information about the United Nations and which has served to inspire other broadcasters throughout the country. Mr. Mayer. Today in the United States there are more than 105 million radio receiving sets and 2,500 radio stations and 108 television stations. Over these facilities the American people are informed and entertained. No programs have more importance than those giving news and feature stories about the great work of the United Nations. This body of 60 member states is pioneering on a staggering scale for the betterment of mankind. The Korean crisis must not blind our eyes to the steady progress of United Nations in humanitarian fields. Last month at the Radio Industry Convention our president, Mr. Harold Fellows pledged the full support of American radio to the United Nations. We Minnesota broadcasters are greatly pleased that our work has been reflected throughout America and that our experience and example have influenced hundreds of broadcasters to schedule frequently and regularly programs devoted to the United Nations. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. In a moment we're going to introduce to you another important man in Minnesota who has assisted in this campaign so wonderfully. And here is the man, Mr. York Langton, president of the Minnesota Association for the United Nations who helped make this all possible. Mr. Langton. We have reached thousands of our citizens in Minnesota with very interesting facts about the United Nations through its official information services. Through United Nations radio you can be well informed on the daily happenings on the world front. We do not always realize how vitally that our activities are affected by the United Nations. As an example, the work of the United Nations International Civil Aviation Organization with its headquarters in Montreal which makes our flights around the world safer and easier through its meteorological ships and standardized regulations and rules. The World Health Organization, the Food and Agricultural Organization, the International Trade Organization, and a score of other subsidiary United Nations bodies are dedicated to the welfare of the Earth's two billion citizens. These are the stories told on the United Nations broadcasts. We of the Minnesota United Nations Association have fully realized the impact of the campaign and the enlightened public opinion that has developed as thousands of our citizens have wanted to join us to build a better world. Thank you, Mr. Langton. And so we bring this broadcast to a close. We're grateful for all the distinguished citizens who have participated and we dedicate this broadcast to the thousands of people throughout this country that have helped to make understanding of the United Nations better and greater and we are indeed grateful to the University of Minnesota and its governor for their cooperation. The United Nations expresses its official appreciation to all of these elements and all of these distinguished people. You have heard a transcribed roundtable discussion from the campus of the University of Minnesota where key leaders, the governor, and foreign students have discussed the importance of communications in world understanding. It climaxed a two-year communications campaign for the United Nations conducted by local leaders in hundreds of cities which began in Minnesota in 1950. Thank you. This is ABC Radio Network.