It is now three minutes after one o'clock on Thursday, January 17th, the start of a big day for the people of the city of New York and a still bigger day for the man they are about to accord an official reception, Captain Henrik Kurt Carlsen, the 37-year-old skipper of the Yo-Fater's Branson Freighter Flying Enterprise. This is Monroe Benton speaking to you from the apron of the Pan American World Airways building at International Airport, Idlewild, Queens. In just a few minutes, Flight 101, the Pan American Airways Strato Cruiser, will come in for a landing just in front of us, and after clearing customs aboard the plane, Captain Carlsen, or Captain Stay Put, as they nicknamed him over in England, will be reunited with his wife, Mrs. Agnes Carlsen, and his two daughters, 7-year-old Karen and 11-year-old Sonia. They are here tonight after making the trip from their home at Woodbridge, New Jersey. Also on hand are Grover Whalen, the chairman of the mayor's official reception committee, Queensborough President James A. Lundy, and officials of the Isbranson Lines. Now directly in front of us are at least six or seven station wagons and automobiles belonging to various newsreel companies and the television branches of the radio networks. And then surrounding this entire section of the apron are numerous, and I do mean numerous, still and press photographers trying to get every advantageous location they can. Immediately to our right and to our left, the Pan American World Airways has supplied these portable generators that carry these gigantic floodlights. There are four on at the moment at the right-hand side, and there are four others on the left yet to be turned on. We had a report a few minutes ago that the plane is in the vicinity and due to land within the next five or six minutes. Now, about 25 feet in front of us is what would be a cargo carrier ordinarily, but for this occasion, it has been converted into a speaker's rostrum. It's about four or five feet off the ground and low cut so that the photographers can get very good angles of the speakers, both from the front and sides. And it has a small stairway on the left-hand side about four or five steps up, and it's all in bright yellow. Then, immediately to the right of the rostrum, they've put together two of these portable stairways, and the photographers have taken up positions on that, too, in a pyramid shape. The police, well, the highest officer I saw of the New York City Police Department was an inspector, and there are lieutenants and captains and sergeants and numerous patrolmen. And there's a plane taking off in the background now, as you probably can hear. And now he's airborne. And still another plane to our left, just about ready to take off. It's expected that Captain Carlson will make a few brief remarks before he retires for the night in preparation for the official City Hall reception and official luncheon later in the day. Every once in a while, the rumor goes through here, this is it, boys, this is it. And the photographers jump up, and lights go on, and then they go off again. There's no official word within the last five minutes beyond what we had about five minutes before that, namely that the plane was due in about two minutes. Here's a plane coming toward us now, swinging around. This may be it. It's a big strato cruiser, and that's the type of plane that Captain Carlson is supposed to be on. It has a big PAA on it. It is inching its way forward. Everybody is saying this is it. And they are getting ready the portable steps to allow the passengers off first. Captain Carlson will be cleared for customs aboard the plane, and he will be the last one off. I don't know at the moment how many other passengers there are. It's a big blue and white Pan American World Airways plane. In the Clipper Washington, according to the name right underneath the pilot's position, two of the motors are off, and the other two are being revved up. Flash probes going off here. Captain Carlson back in New York City after two unsuccessful attempts to get back here, one by sea and the other by air. Had some trouble earlier today in getting to the, or rather taking off from Shannon Airport. They ran into mechanical difficulties, had to return, and finally after having repairs, it did take off, 8 o'clock this morning. They are now pushing this portable step ladder, or steps if you will, up to the door. The door hasn't opened as yet. We have a fairly good view standing on a big platform here in the rear. The door is now swinging open, getting the steps into position. Big American flag painted on the tail, says Strato Cruiser. There is a stewardess going up the steps, and one of the Pan American World Airways personnel getting the steps into position. And one of these trucks, the light trucks, are getting into position now, and it is practically as bright as day, and we can see people moving around inside the plane. The steps are still being secured. The door is sort of half open and half shut. The mayor's committee is on hand here. The police are trying to keep the photographers back as much as they can to allow room for Captain Carlson to make his way to this speaker's rostrum in front of us. Nobody has come out as yet. We're waiting patiently now. Any moment, and we will have the official reception. There's the door swinging wide open. There's somebody in a uniform of Pan American World Airways. Nobody has come out of the ship yet, just standing in the doorway. As we said earlier, Captain Carlson's wife is here and his two daughters. One is Karen, who is seven years old, and Sonia, 11. They came over from Woodbridge, New Jersey, just for this occasion, each very nicely adorned with a bouquet of flowers. It seems that there are two or three people now, mostly personnel of the airline, as far as I can make out by uniforms. One, two, three stewardesses. That's who they are. Three stewardesses of the airlines. One that went up the steps before and two that were on the plane, evidently. Now we are watching. Here is a man in a brown overcoat carrying another coat on his arm in a briefcase. A man in a gray coat. Another man in a light tan coat. There is a fourth, a fifth, and a sixth man. All in civilian dress. Seven. There is a woman. The eighth person is a woman. Ninth is a man. A tenth, another man, all carrying bundles. Eleven and twelfth are gentlemen. So far only one woman. Thirteen, fourteen persons have come out now. There is another woman. Fifteen. Sixteen and seventeen. Eighteen. Nineteen persons have come out of this Clipper, Washington. Twenty and twenty-one. There is twenty-two. And another woman making twenty-three. She is carrying a hat box and a coat and her pocketbook. Twenty-three and twenty-four. Twenty-five as far as I can make out now. Twenty-six. And here is a woman carrying a baby. Making twenty-seven and twenty-eight persons. Twenty-nine. Thirty-one and thirty. Thirty-one and thirty-one and thirty-two persons. Thirty-three coming off now. Captain Carlson, as we said, will be the last one off. Thirty-four as a woman. Thirty-five and thirty-six. All right. There are thirty-six persons have come off now. It seems that's all. There's an army officer. It's thirty-seven or thirty-eight. I've lost count at the moment. And the stairway is now clear. Well, here comes another woman. Down the runway. And still another passenger. Making about forty, I presume, at this point. And she is being helped down the steps. This woman carrying several packages. The personnel of Pan American Airways are very courteous to all their passengers. Everybody standing around. Cameras going. Flash bulbs going off. And then the pilot, or co-pilot, coming down the steps now. He has his papers and briefcase with him. We see nobody in the doorway at the moment. There's a suitcase coming up now. Is that a suitcase? It looks like... Wait a minute now. I can't make out exactly what that is. It's something like a baby's crib. I imagine so. Yes, it's a small, portable crib, I think. With a... Well, it would have to be a baby of about maybe six to ten months old, I imagine. A woman right behind the crib. And then a man behind her, presumably her husband. And both of them going off together now. That makes up for the passengers thus far that have come off this Clipper Washington waiting for Captain Henrik Kurt Carlsen to make his appearance at the doorway of this Pan American Strato Cruiser, which has just landed here at Idlewild Airport. Everybody is very calm. Everything is very orderly. No confusion whatsoever. And the police department have the situation well in hand at the base of the ladder. Here we have still another youngster. That makes three, we counted. Three youngsters. One very young, the other about a year old, and another one also about a year and a half. Here's a fourth youngster being carried in his mother's arms. Quite a few young people coming across the Atlantic from England. These people are going right into the Customs and Quarantine office here to be cleared. As we mentioned before, Captain Carlsen will be cleared aboard the ship so that when he comes out, he will be able to go to this Speaker's Rostrum set up here and be officially welcomed by the Mayor's Committee in person, naturally, of Grover Whalen and Burp President James A. Lundy of Queens and officials of the Branson Line, the owner of the O'Fated Flying Enterprise. We are still waiting now. Here is still another passenger. This looks like a stewardess. Captain Carlsen hasn't made his appearances yet, waiting patiently. Here's still another stewardess. Evidently, these strato cruisers really carry a tremendous passenger list and they have the personnel to take care of all these passengers on board. Photographers are all lined up on this pyramid affair to our right here, ready to flash those bulbs as soon as Captain Carlsen puts in an appearance. He slept rather late last night after the plane had trouble over at Shannon Airport. Then he breakfasted at the airport restaurant on bacon and eggs, sausage and tomatoes, buttered toast with honey, and several cups of coffee. And while guards kept correspondence away from him, he relaxed with other passengers until the plane was ready. Just before he went aboard, he said, I've had a good rest, a very good breakfast, and a most enjoyable cigar. Then he added, I believe we'll make it this time. I don't think that hoodoo that's out there will catch me again. Of course, the hoodoo being possibly the Atlantic Ocean. He tried to get over here on his ship from Germany, and you know what happened on that score. The ship finally did sink about 300 miles or so, or less than that, I should say, about 60 miles, I guess, by the time they got near to the shore. 60 miles off the coast of Falmouth, England. And of course, they ran into trouble, mechanical trouble, with the de-icers of this Pan American plane over at Shannon Airport, and that was another delay. That's why this arrival here at 1 o'clock in the morning. The skipper is a modest man, modest almost to the point of shyness, we understand from dispatches received in London. He feels that he doesn't deserve this traditional New York ticker tape welcome because in the end, the Flying Enterprise went down. I feel I had not accomplished anything, he said. It would have been a different story if I had brought the Flying Enterprise into port. I was just doing my duty as any of those seamen would have done. Captain added that he wanted another ship and that he wanted to continue the North Atlantic run. Now we're getting ready. Everybody is squinting through their lenses as far as the cameramen are concerned, and the crowd seems to be pressing forward a bit more. Any second now, we hope to see Captain Carlson put in an appearance here at the top of the steps of this Pan-American strato cruiser, the Clipper Washington. Matter of fact, Captain Carlson said jokingly over at Ireland that his constant meetings with correspondents were a worse ordeal than the one he went through on his sinking ship. However, I don't think that will be so here because everything seems to be under control and very well handled by the police department and the mayor's committee. Matter of fact, the captain will have his wish as far as the new ship is concerned because the U.S. Maritime Administration has chartered a ship slightly larger than the Flying Enterprise to the Isbranson lines, and Captain Carlson will have command of this new ship. It's called the Halula Victory, and at the moment is over at the Todd Shipyard in Hoboken, New Jersey in dry dock being fixed up and getting all ship shape. Earlier this week, Carlson received the Order of Denneborg from Denmark where his mother and father still live. The award is a silver cross decorated with red and white enamel and with a ribbon of red and white silk. There's some more of the baggage coming off the plane. Not... Not yet. Nothing going at the moment. We're standing by here waiting for Captain Carlson to set foot on this portable stairway that will take him to the ground and over to this speaker's rostrum we have set up over here for the official welcome. Talking about that award he got from the Danish government when the Danish ambassador to England made the presentation, he told Carlson, I can assure you that the king, meaning King Frederick of Denmark who is himself a sailor and loves the sea admired your courage and fortitude. I think you will wish me on this occasion to pay tribute also to the British and American sailors who stood by you so splendidly and the ambassador concluded on behalf of my countrymen I thank you for having in such a magnificent way added to the prestige of the Danes as a seafaring nation. Then Captain Carlson said he was happy to receive the order and didn't know how to express his thanks. But then he added please accept from me as a simple sailor my simple thanks to all of you. He spoke those words first in English and then repeated it in Danish. The good skipper also has received a silver medal for meritorious services at sea awarded by Lloyds of London the insurance underwriters. This medal has been presented about 400 times during the past 60 years. And once again Captain Carlson showed his extreme modesty in replying to the presentation. He said I feel I have not done anything that deserves any recognition. I tried as a seaman to prove what a seaman is expected to do. And still more awards are in store for the skipper later today at the City Hall reception which WNYC will carry at 12.15 this afternoon. Mayor Impelet Terry will award him New York City's Medal of Honor. And then later at the official luncheon at the Advertising Club of New York which WNYC will broadcast at about 1.45 or 2 o'clock this afternoon. He will be presented with two scrolls one from the Advertising Club itself the other from William H. McGuire President of the American Master Mariners. Incidentally it was Captain McGuire who authorized Captain Carlson to make his first trip on an American vessel during World War II. And so we wait out here at Idlewild Airport hoping that Captain Carlson will put in an appearance at the doorway of this Pan-American Strato Cruiser any minute now and be officially welcomed to the City of New York by the Mayor's Committee. Earlier this evening Mrs. Carlson arrived with the two young girls 7 and 11 years of age respectively and of course they were swamped by the photographers but they all took it in their stride except that believe it or not the older girl was more or less scared and the younger one which wait a minute they're saying it out of the way we're sort of stopping and starting here because every once in a while we get these spurts of enthusiasm and we think that Captain Carlson is making an appearance and then the milling around sort of dies down and we're once again waiting. Among the merchant seamen to participate in the honors for Captain Carlson is Richard Cossaro a graduate of the December 1950 class of the Kings Point Merchant Marine Academy Mr. Cossaro was third assistant engineer on the flying enterprise under Captain Carlson everybody's backing up a bit now we may have it may not the door is wide open nobody is on the stairway just one or two Pan American people in the doorway now two or three officers in uniform coming out customs men I assume there's a gentleman in an overcoat going up a civilian dress waiting momentarily now speaking of the Merchant Marine Academy we might point out that the cadet Merchant Marines participating in the parade from the Battery to City Hall at noon today are doing so on their own time they will make up the classes they miss by attending school on Saturday and Sunday actually the arrival of Captain Carlson back in this country is being celebrated not only by the people of New York City but by New York State too ah there's the captain himself now I believe that's him or is it now wait a second he came down the man in a civilian dress came down and simply stood there no that was not Captain Carlson he sort of stopped there and I believe that was Grover Whalen he was sort of surveying the scene to make sure everything is in readiness so I assume that it shouldn't be long now before Captain Carlson arrives more lights are going on so as they say this is it there's Mrs. Carlson going up with a bouquet of roses in her hand then there's 11 year old Sonia 7 year old Karen right behind and another lady who might possibly be Mrs. Carlson's mother I'm not sure and another gentleman they've all gone in the plane and we assume that they will all come out in due time because we have this tremendous assemblage of press, radio television and other means of communication waiting for them expectantly here we've been out here now some two and a half hours getting set up for this arrival and it's a very clear cold night out here stars are shining moon is out to our right and as far as the weather is concerned that has been in Captain Carlson's favor if nothing else has been we were mentioning before that the state of New York is in on this too because the state senate up in Albany adopted a resolution declaring this to be Henrik Kurt Carlson Day Senator John M. Braystead Jr. of the borough of Richmond cited Carlson's heroism courage valor and devotion to duty in remaining with the old faded flying enterprise until it went down off Falmouth, England Senator Braystead said that the example of Carlson who was a former Staten Island resident by the way served to strengthen and perpetuate the finest traditions of the American sailor getting back to that parade at City Hall later today there will be 2,000 men in the line of march including 750 of those cadet midshipmen from Kings Point Merchant Marine Academy and contingents from the First Army the First Air Force the Third Naval District U.S. Marine Corps and Coast Guard as well as New York City Fire Police and Sanitation Department contingents flanked by the midshipmen in a V formation Captain Carlson will march out Broadway to City Hall not ride followed by an open car in which his family will ride then a second car in which 5 elderly seamen from Sailor's Snug Harbor will ride the Department of Public Works and the Department of Parks have erected a stand on the City Hall steps designed to resemble the stern of the flying enterprise including a metal smokestack painted the same color as was the flying enterprises ribbons of signal flags will be strung from a spar and will greet him with the words well done then at City Hall Captain Carlson will be received by Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere once again Mr. Whelan will preside now everybody saying get down watch it stand by the stand by is the word going around through the press corps and one of the Pan American officials has also yelled stand by from the top of this stairway leading from the Pan American Strato Cruiser the Flipper Washington and we hope Captain Carlson will come down in just a moment or two incidentally tomorrow also on hand will be Vice Admiral Oscar C. Badger commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier and Atlantic Reserve Fleet to speak on behalf of the armed forces at the City Hall reception for Captain Carlson we're waiting now every once in a while we get these expected surges and then things die down but that's to be expected in a situation like this where everything has to be cleared officially through customs through quarantine for health inspection and what have you before Captain Carlson can officially get off the plane now we have the people who went up a few minutes ago an elderly woman and her husband evidently coming down I think we have Captain Carlson coming down now or possibly a relative I'm not sure no no flashbulbs going off that's one sure way of telling all right now the little Karen has put in an appearance she's wearing a green snowsuit it looks like and there is Captain no it's Grover Whalen Grover Whalen pointing out various sights to little Karen Grover Whalen is waving his hat and getting the stairway clear for the rest of the group to come down there behind Karen is Sonya behind her is her mother with those big flowers I think they're roses from this distance we're a bit far away from them to tell for sure they're bright red and there's the Captain right alongside with his wife flashbulbs going off he's just come out of the door he's on our right he's kissing his wife for the photographers the children are below them on the steps both are wearing green outfits and they're now coming down they're halfway down the steps from this strato cruiser they've stopped once again and the photographers are yelling as usual one more hold it and what have you but they're posing they're kissing once again very cooperative smiling Captain is wearing a regular officer's uniform of the merchant marine carrying his overcoat over his left arm and they are slowly descending and they've just about gotten down to the bottom of the steps now leading from this strato cruiser they're clearing a path to this rostrum making their way toward us here now and any moment they will get onto this rostrum and be officially greeted by Grover Whelan and the rest of the reception committee photographers backing up lights being rearranged last minute packages being taken off the plane and it seems that this airport has become strangely quiet except for this one to use the old cliche beehive of activity here but that's just what it is in this one little nest of people in front of the plane the rest of the airport seems to be all looking this way and standing still no planes taking off at the moment or landing and photographers are just shooting blindly over their heads in hopes of getting a good picture the police are trying to clear a way through the personnel on the field and we are now moving into a better position ourselves over here there we see a captain of the police department there is an inspector commissioner edward kavanagh jr commissioner of marine and aviation for the city of new york here is captain carlson wearing his officer's hat with a gold braid and scrambled eggs as they say grover whalen has just mounted the rostrum helping the captain up and then the captain turns around helps his wife up and then other city officials there is borough president lundy of queens and commissioner kavanagh now they're on the rostrum it's a reconverted cargo carrier we might say it's about six or seven microphones over there and we'll stand by with our engineer now to switch to the rostrum in just a moment as soon as the photographers have stopped taking pictures right in front of us the newsreels and the television cameras are going full speed i guess those are roses from here yes they've gotten a bit closer mrs carlson has a big bouquet of roses she's been carrying with her ever since she arrived here at idle wild airport and once again the photographers are shouting orders turn this way please smile and so forth so let's go up switch to the rostrum now please family thank you for this grand welcome you gave me thank you hey captain what you say there captain how about a little kiss from the wife wait wait give us a nice kiss here captain give us that big kiss right here right here captain captain's taking some more pictures and kissing his wife once again twice he's hugging her now and they're smiling very much they are rubbing noses in eskimo fashion now and smiling very brightly mrs carlson wearing a brown overcoat we didn't hear what captain carlson said he was talking into the microphone so we switched over there in hopes of catching what he said he's turning around now and looking various ways trying to satisfy oh there's a great big kiss he just took that whole bunch of flowers in the right hand and kissed captain carlson smack on the lips there's another one the same type that's the you call that the bear hug type kiss i guess she really kissed himself at that time to use an expression and still the photographers call for one more just one more there is being kissed now by little karen and uh sonia's looking around you sort of uh wondering where to go next i guess the captain is uh looking over toward us waving his hand for the newsreels and i don't think he's going to say anything more grover whalen is uh alongside trying to arrange it let's switch to the roster once again please ladies and gentlemen of the press will you please give us an opportunity for a moment come on will you say a word welcome to the people that are listening in on the radio this is uh captain carlson who's just arrived on the pan-american ship from shannon which was bogged down there for seven or eight hours and uh he's losing all of his color because of the attention that's being given to him this moment captain carlson welcome home karen thank you fellow citizen i cannot and i hope you will forgive me at this moment express my my feelings but i i do feel that the welcome you give me is tremendous and i i feel a little ashamed because after all we only did what we thought was our duty but thank you all of you goodbye and uh after that little speech up there on the rostrum uh one more hug from mrs carlson i guess that's about number eight or ten in the last two three minutes and uh that seems to be the extent of the reception oh there's another one of those bear hug type kisses again this time from uh 11 year old sonia and uh they're clearing away now off the rostrum and captain carlson will retire to an unknown destination and uh i guess that just about does it from international airport at isla queens we've brought you a description of the welcome home given to captain henrik kurt carlson the skipper of the ill-fated flying enterprise who spent some 13 days in the stormy atlantic in the hopes of bringing his ship safely to port but that just wasn't to be as we said there's a full day ahead for the skipper and we invite you to stay tuned to wnyc for our broadcast to the city hall reception at 12 15 and for the official luncheon at approximately 1 45 or 2 o'clock depending upon the schedule but for now this is monroe benton returning you to our studios in the municipal building this is the municipal broadcasting system municipal broadcasting system municipal broadcasting systemstaw telch