Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Our panel today includes distinguished guests of the university who have come to the university campus for the second of six centennial conferences scheduled in this centennial year. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what are the social responsibilities of scientists? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the social and ethical problems which modern science has created, and the role of the scientist in dealing with these problems. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our first speaker by special transcription is Gordon Dean, Chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission. Mr. Dean. Mr. Moderator, you pose the question of the social responsibilities of scientists. The quick and easy answer is that they are the same responsibilities that are borne by non-scientific citizens. This is true, of course, but we have to take a longer look at the question, because of the nature of affairs in the world today. Scientists, pure and applied, do more to change the nature and the problems of the society we all live in than any other group. Does this fact give them any special competence or unusual obligation to help us change our customs, our laws, and policies to meet the changes that they create? And can they help in a special way to make these changes add up to good for all concerned? Just because a man is a scientist, it does not necessarily follow that he is especially gifted to cope with the problems of social, economic, or political change. But scientists do have a method of solving the problems of research in nature that might be adapted to solving the social problems that the achievements of science bring upon us. President Conant of Harvard has pointed this out in his grand new book, Science and Common Sense. In his summation, Dr. Conant raises this question, and I quote, Will the introduction of science into the practical art of organizing human society be of benefit? My answer is definitely yes. Here then, on the word of a leader in science, is one responsibility of natural scientists to help social scientists and lay leaders of affairs develop more precise ways of handling social problems, methods that are more likely to produce good results than those in use today. This is not to say that men of science must have all the answers for the situations they create. Take one that is with us right now. The Census Bureau has just told us that the number of persons in the United States over 65 years of age in 1950 had doubled in the decade since the 1940 census. The advances in medical science and techniques of public health brought this about. But do you believe that it is the responsibility of the medical scientists to take the lead in disposing of the problems created by this particular social phenomena? Problems like those of providing for the gainful employment of these ages, for their recreation, perhaps of changes in social security and tax laws, and of assessment of their political power. I think the answer is no. It is up to all of us. However, there is something else the scientists may do. They can give us the facts about the physical nature of these social problems. In other words, they can mark off the limits, the boundaries, within which we have to work in solving them. The members of the Atomic Energy Commission meet this situation every day. The men of science have to tell us how policies that we might adopt would work in the physical world we are dealing with. This function of communication is a very real responsibility of the scientists. They can save us from wasting our time with policy solutions that just won't work. The writings of men like Conant and of Bush and Oppenheimer, geared to the understanding of the intelligent layman, are a very real social contribution. We welcome also their advice and suggestions for the solution of complex social, political, and economic problems facing us today. But here, their special competence is less. They become a few among many whose views must go into the shaping of a national or international policy. Now a final thought. How many scientists are there in Congress, in the state legislature, in city government, and town councils? Very few, I would venture. Now is this good or bad? It would be interesting, I think, to have the views of the other members of this panel on this point. Should scientists descend from the ivory tower of the seeker after fact and throw themselves into the heat and dirt of common ordinary partisan politics? To sum up then, it seems to me as a layman, as a non-scientist, that in this world of the mid-20th century, men of science do have some very special social responsibilities. What do the scientists themselves think about it? Thank you, Mr. Dean. And now, may I present the other members of our panel. Mr. Karl Lark Horowitz, professor of physics at Purdue University. Mrs. Suzanne K. Langer, visiting professor of philosophy at Northwestern University. And Ava W. Eshbach, dean of the Technological Institute at Northwestern University. Now, you've heard Gordon Dean's remarks, Lark Horowitz. What are your reactions to his position? Mr. Dean raises the question, how far are scientists participating in the various legislatures? Perhaps I may remind you that on the continent, in the various parliaments, and in England, it has been customary that outstanding scientists, also outstanding artists, are elected to the so-called upper house. And so you will find men like Bertrand Russell, the mathematician, Lord Rutherford, the great physicist, participating in the discussion of the House of Lords. And they therefore have the advantage to hear expert advice on scientific and technical questions on the floor of the house. What would you think if we would have senators at large representing scientific and technological advances in our Senate? What would you think of that, Eshbach? Well, I agree with Mr. Dean and Mr. Horowitz. Certainly, one of the important functions of the scientists in regard to our social welfare is, and will be for some time, the education of people concerning the consequences of scientific development. I don't think we can expect scientists as people to be any wiser politically than others. Of course, their advice and policy should be heard, particularly on technical questions. It isn't any accident that many of our scientists are appointed advisors to political bodies. I'd like to point out the minority group about which we're talking. The number of scientists in this country is too small to be effective in direct political action. Their number in other countries is still smaller. For example, in this country, our scientific progress today depends upon one half of our population. That is about 750,000 people. This includes the engineers and the scientists. But only about a tenth of a percent, a fifth of the half, are really engaged in scientific and development work. And only about a fifth of this, or one-fiftieth of a percent, are highly educated people with what we would call the doctor's degrees. And this situation is, the proportion is smaller in other countries. And it is this group that we are talking about. Now you say half our population, you mean one half? One half of one percent. One half of one percent of our population, which is considerably different. That's right. Well, Mrs. Langer, how about this? Do you want scientists in Congress? No, I don't want scientists in Congress, because I think a scientist who gave his time to wrestling around with party politics would very soon lose his competence as a scientist. But I think it would be an excellent thing if you had scientists in close touch with the cabinet, in close touch with teachers of the people, so that they know what the dangers are that are harbored in this extraordinarily sharp instrument which science has put into their hands. I would like to see scientists, but not called upon to waste their time in politics. I quite agree with that, and I think the main contribution which scientists have to make nowadays is to bring science to the people. And that can only be done if the scientists will make a serious effort to clarify the social implications of an invention to the people at large. That is particularly necessary because of the usually long time lag between the discovery, which cannot be foreseen or aimed at, and the invention which is made for a purpose. So the scientist has to be instrumental in eliminating the irresponsible claims made by advertising or so-called scientific fellow travelers who use the language of science to bring about confusion. And he has to eliminate exaggeration and misinterpretation of scientific information. Now it is quite true most scientists are not also at the same time science writers. But we have in this country a large number of science writers. And I think this is the duty of every scientist to help the daily press and the science writers in every way to make it possible for the people to understand what the social implications of science are. Do you think this is a new responsibility of scientists? This responsibility of clarification? This responsibility the scientist really has had all the time. But it becomes in a certain sense new because of the specialization of science. If you remember that there was a time when all science was part of what is called natural philosophy. It's a chair of physics in the English university. It is still called the chair of natural philosophy. And so the manual I can use to lecture not only on ethics and aesthetics and moral philosophy, but on mechanics, on chemistry, on astronomy, all this was called philosophy. Nowadays, the scientist is so specialized that he has a particular duty. A, to educate his fellow scientists in other fields. And B, to collaborate with a science writer to make science understandable for the people. It seems to me that to make science understandable for the people is not sufficient. That what the people should do with science after they understand its possibilities, and the possibilities are all that the scientist or science writer can convey, can educate them in. What they ought to do with it rests fundamentally on philosophical questions, on philosophical conceptions and aims. Now the business of the philosopher is to clarify ideas. It is not any more to go in for scientific teaching as it was. The reason why science has split off is the same reason why philosophy should finally come to terms with its own problems. Well, now to go back to Mr. Dean's opening remarks, there is no question that modern science has dumped some pretty serious problems in our, in our labs. Science has made enormous progress. We seem to be agreed upon that. They've given us the atomic bomb. They've given us all sorts of modern inventions. And we're now beginning to wonder whether those, those, those, uh, inventions aren't instruments of, uh, of destruction. And the, and the question we ask, uh, what are the scientists' responsibilities, uh, uh, in terms of, of using these, uh, inventions that they've, uh, brought to light? Yes, Bob. Well, I agree with Mrs. Langer that the answer depends a lot on what we consider the ethical and moral viewpoint. We all agree that we're against war, against aggression. Uh, we're willing to use all means, including science, to defend our way of life. And our opposition here to the use of science for warfare is due to a changed attitude toward the war itself because of the apparent violence which it will, which will result. I, I think we should introduce here, at, at this time, a little perspective of the degree to which the applications of science have been accelerated. Uh, the application of science to war isn't new. Uh, we, uh, actually, you can go back to the time of Archimedes, but we probably could begin with the development of applied science, uh, 300 years ago, or let's say in the 16th, 17th century. Uh, Galileo was a professor of military science. Liardo de Vinci advertised himself as a military engineer. What we today consider as engineering didn't develop until 200 years ago, uh, in France. And the history of what we're thinking about in terms of the application of science occurred largely within the centennial history of Northwestern University. It was in France and England that the idea of civil engineering as distinguished from military engineering began the whole series of professional groups of engineering in the, the United States, which we now call traditionally electrical, mechanical, and civil. But it was not until, uh, the end of the 19th century that, uh, the application of specialized fields of science brought about the achievements we have today, and their possible applications to, uh, uh, warfare and violence. I think, uh, I'd like Dr. Horowitz's comment on the acceleration of those. Well, the awareness of the possible abuses of modern science came after the First World War, during which scientists on a large scale started to participate in the design and construction not only of weapons, but entire new strategy, such as airplane, radio, chemical warfare, poison guards. But it's interesting that in the true Christian spirit, in the sixteenth century, when ballistics was first developed, a famous Italian mathematician refused to publish his results on ballistics because they would further warfare. But then when the Turks attacked in 1531, then he said, I should have stuck to this war research, because I might have been able to defend, actually, the Republic. Now the awareness of scientists as an organized group, uh, became in the thirties, and they pointed to the necessity of studying the social impact of modern science. Science and social welfare was the theme of the British Association meeting in Blackpool in 36, and in 37, the Council of the American Association for the Advancement of Science resolved to extend to all other scientific organizations throughout the world an invitation to cooperate, not only for the advancement of science, but also by promoting peace and intellectual freedom in order that science may continue to advance and spread more abundantly its benefits to all mankind. And at the same time, a proposal was made that a society for the study of social relations of science be founded, and this resulted in the organization of a special division of the British Association of the Social and International Relations of Science, which was organized in 1938 in Cambridge. I wonder to what extent the Council on, what was its name, the relation of science to social welfare, took up the basic ethical, that is, strictly philosophical questions there involved. I am not asking whether there were philosophers present, because a great deal of philosophical thinking is not done by professional philosophers. It is done often by scientists, should be done much more than it is by statesmen. But I wonder whether the complete absence of philosophical advisors in a case like this does not very often allow great confusions of fundamental issues, so that you start somewhere halfway up the ladder instead of at the bottom. I can answer this question regarding the Blackpool meeting. Philosophy was represented to some extent by Sir Richard Gregory, the famous editor of Nature, who has been given a great deal of thought to the philosophical and ethical problems which are involved in the application of science. And at the bicentenary meeting in 1947 in Princeton, there was a special symposium held on the physical sciences and human values. And Northrup from Yale, as you know a philosopher, gave a great deal of thought to the discussion just of the philosophical and ethical questions that you raised. Now let me get back to what I regard here as the basic problem. We ask what are the social responsibilities of scientists. Now you scientists on our panel have made it perfectly clear that in this year of our Lord, the scientists have a responsibility in the way of clarifying their discoveries and their inventions so that people will understand them. Mrs. Langer persists in the question, do they have a responsibility in the matter of determining policy, how these inventions should be used. Now speak specifically to that question, would you? I think to a certain extent they have. It is not a question. You see, people when they talk nowadays about moral and social responsibility of the scientists, always speak about the atomic bomb. There is of course a very valid reason, because it is the most important political object of our time. But there are certain fields of science where the scientist definitely has a moral obligation to insist on the application of science. And I mean here the health program, where science has done so much and could do still more. The program of nutrition, scientific farming and the population program. In all these cases, science should actually insist on the application that is entirely for beneficial and peacetime uses. But you know that all these applications and scientific progress depends to a large extent on the social climate, and usually there are great difficulties before such an actual status is being accepted. How does the philosopher and the moral thinker and political leader complement the scientists in the role that Lark Horatis was just describing? I should say the business of the philosopher is to clarify those underlying ideas which determine what is in fact the social welfare. whether the social welfare stops at political borders and is furthered by the relative destruction of other political groups, so that at least they can't, let's say, be as strong as our own, or whether the social welfare in a world which is industrially and economically one does not rest on the social welfare of the population of the earth as a whole. Now, you may very well say, but philosophers don't clarify these ideas. I am sorry that in that case I must agree with you. The philosophers, I think, have very largely fallen down. I say it with shame. I am frankly ashamed of that failure. Not enough work has been done. And instead of loading up the scientists with a responsibility which I think is excessive, because as a group they are already perhaps the most serious and hard-working and hard-thinking part of the population, I would rather see the people who are, after all, the ruling body in this country, make a rigorous and vigorous demand on their philosophers to prepare themselves with as hard and exacting work. There are, in fact, no bodies of fact to be learned in philosophy, but there are techniques. I was about to say that was a remarkably modest statement, Mrs. Langer. I'm not sure that it is, because you wind up by assigning terrific responsibilities to the philosophers. Where does that leave you, Eshpott? Well, I was just thinking that you cannot avoid political responsibility, because social and scientific progress depend to a large extent on the social climate in which it's nurtured. For example, when the political situation is directed to or oriented toward the welfare of the people, as contrasted to the power of the state, then I think you have a possibility of international peace. And then you have a possibility of the scientist and the social worker and the philosopher working in harmony. Yes, but when that situation doesn't exist, when you have a world situation which looks something like a moral collapse, and you hand these statesmen and these people weapons which you scientists wield, you then have the problem that we're talking about here today. What I'm saying simply is that the direct responsibility is political. What's direct responsibility? The people are responsible. The people, I agree. But how should the people be responsible if they don't understand what they are handling? You see, I think there is a great difficulty involved altogether. We have a modern technology, very complicated and very sophisticated, superimposed over a rather primitive mind. The mind of man has not particularly changed, neither in his superstitions nor in his belief in mystics or anything since the time of Christ. And there is the conflict. You have modern man emotionally just as it was 2,000 years ago, but technologically far advanced. What is he going to do about it? Well, now, since that's the case, why do you scientists go on handing this primitive man sharp knives and weapons and atomic guns and whatnot, like Horowitz? I don't think... Aren't you remiss in your moral responsibility? I don't think... You better close up your shop for a while. No, I don't think stopping science would change it at all, because it means... Well, then what is the answer? Do we turn to Mrs. Langer here? Is our hope in the philosopher? Well, where is it? I'm sorry... You can't abdicate your responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen, by saying, well, we have to depend on the people. They look to you for leadership. Where is this leadership? It seems to me this leadership has to come out of the philosophical profession exactly the way technological leadership comes ultimately out of the scientific profession. Now, it is a fact that philosophers have fallen down, but there is no use sitting down and weeping about it, because, in fact, I think that the human mind is perfectly capable of growing up, even at an accelerated rate. And what makes people grow up is emergency. Now, we live in a constant moral emergency. If you have a nine-year-old boy, you do not ordinarily hand him a sharp axe. That's what I was saying a minute ago. That's what I was saying a minute ago. Exactly. You usually give him a safe little hatchet to play with first. But a boy who grows up in a pioneer society has to be able to handle a sharp axe. By the time he is nine or ten, he cannot afford to be childish. Now, the same thing holds for us all. There is no use asking, is science good or bad for us? Science is here. It is in our hands, like the sharp axe. We are pioneer children in a new world, and we simply cannot afford to be childish. Well, we've had these constructive answers. It's been perfectly clear that the scientist has a popularizing role to do, a role of clarification. There still seems to be a question in this whole matter of policy. Who's going to make the decisions? And that question, it seems to me, we haven't answered adequately. Now, Mr. Dean did have one suggestion. He suggested that the introduction of science into the practical art of policy and affairs might be of great benefit. I take that to mean that the application of scientific method to questions of policy and value might add to the solution of those problems. What do you think of that, Mr. Langer? What do you think of that? I don't know what I think of that. Can you solve these questions of value and policy by the kind of method that the scientists have found so successful? No, no. Philosophy has its own methods. And I do believe that if you get philosophical clarity into your ideas, you will know what you want, you will know what you want to use, and why. How do you feel about the... I'm sorry, Mrs. Langer and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, What are the Social Responsibilities of Scientists? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the Reviewing Stand costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Gordon Dean, Ovid Eshbach, Karl Lark Horowitz, and Suzanne K. Langer. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss Latin America in the world crisis. Our guests will be Harvey L. Johnson, Professor of Romance Languages at Northwestern University. Paul S. Leeds, Professor of History at Loyola University. Felix Stenevisius, Consul for Uruguay and Resident Secretary of the Inter-American Consul of Commerce and Production. And Philip Taylor, Instructor in Political Science at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of Latin America in the world crisis. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast to coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System.
