Ten years ago, it took a Pearl Harbor to shake some of us out of our complacency. We can't afford to wait this time. Civil defense is common sense. This is Bill Leonard introducing another in the weekly series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. This network brings you essential information and instruction, tells you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help. At this time, we present another in the new series of programs prepared by individual stations comprising the Civil Defense Radio Network. This program was produced by station WHAM in Rochester. At one time or another since that fateful summer of 1945, you've probably wondered vaguely what it would be like to have an atom bomb strike your city. Oh, not out loud, of course, and not for very long. Probably not long enough to ask yourself the question, where would I be? What would I do? Maybe you think an atom bomb raid is the end of everything. Maybe you shrug off the whole thing and think there's plenty of time to figure out the answer later. I'm sorry to inform you that there isn't that much time. There'll be no second chance. After all, atom bombs are expensive to make. America's radar and plane defenses make the price for raiders carrying atom bombs higher and higher every day. Since a city like Rochester, to an enemy is probably worth only one bomb, as we now figure the cost, anyone who has to fight his way through to it would try to make that one bomb count. If there is no second chance, there is at least one chance. I say let's take it and make the most of it. There's always something a person can do, as we found out during the air raids on Britain in the last war, and every little bit helps. Those answers are as expert as you can get. Dr. Joe W. Howland knows as much about civil defense and the atom bomb as anyone in this country today. Right now, he's director of the Medical Division Atomic Energy Project at the University of Rochester. During the last war, he held a similar position with the Hush Hush Manhattan District, the group that planned the first atom bomb. What's most important to us on this program is the fact that he headed up the survey teams we sent into Nagasaki and Hiroshima right after the war to report on the effects of the atom bomb on the cities that man has built and on man himself. And that shiver, never be daunted, north of England accent you heard belongs to Mr. Charles Hibbard, until two years ago a resident of Allerton near Birmingham, England, and for five years between 1940 and 1945, an air raid warden in His Majesty's service. This voice belongs to Jack Hooley, a war reporter in London during 1943 and 4, and now a staff newsman at WHAM in Rochester. On August 6, 1945, most of the industrial workers at Hiroshima had already reported for work. Nearly all the children and some industrial employees were at work in the open on the program of building removal to provide fire breaks. The attack came 45 minutes after the all-clear had been sounded from a previous alert because of the lack of warning and the people's indifference to small groups of planes. The explosion came as an almost complete surprise and the people had not taken shelter. At Nagasaki, there was no raid warning. Only 400 persons were in raid shelters that could have held 40,000. It's easy to get careless. There was a young lad in our town, a paper boy. He was pedaling his bike along the road one afternoon with the jerry planes overhead when he heard one above and behind him going to a dive. The lad knew the sound all right and he didn't turn. He just leaped from his bike into the ditch along the road. It was so quick his bike rolled straight with the jerry bullets kicking up dust where the rider should have been. He had a bloody nose, but nothing worse. Then, of course, the trouble of picking up his papers that was cut all over the roadside. Well, it's obvious that he learned from experience and we'll have to learn from his experience and those like them are not at all because there will be no second chance. An atom bomb, in fact, has about three main punches. They are heat, blast, and radiation. Heat and blast, of course, we know about at least a lot about here in this country, but radiation is a new thing. Well, let's take them in that order then. First, heat. In the center of an atom bomb, temperatures up to about 100,000 degrees centigrade are reached right after explosion. And this means a ground temperature of about 2,000 degrees, and that is hot. Of course, this heat falls off very rapidly as the ball of fire expands. In about three seconds, all danger of the heat is gone. The most important thing to remember is that heat goes in straight lines and can't turn corners. At Hirschema, I talked with Dr. Sasaki, the only staff member at the Red Cross Hospital there, who is not knocked out by the bomb. Dr. Sasaki told me that 8.15 in the morning of August 6, 1945, he was walking along the main hospital corridor with windows spaced in the outer wall. As the flash of light and heat came through these windows, Dr. Sasaki was just one step past a certain window and not yet in front of another. With the flash, he ducked to one knee. He was not burned in any way, although the hospital was very near to the ground zero bomb point and in a definite danger zone. In fact, much of this hospital was wrecked. The answer is duck then. Look somewhere away from a direct line with the flash of heat. And be fast about it. In one second, you can drop to the floor and roll into a ball. Well, you know, some people would think that awfully silly, especially if it all proved to be a false alarm. In that case, I've looked silly more times than I've looked sane. But you'll notice I'm still here to talk about it. Now, by that is the perfect answer. Of course, that's what I mean by not having a second chance. Somehow, we've got to set our minds so we take this preparation seriously. There will only be no second chance. And then, of course, scientifically again, after the heat effects come the blast. And here I might mention the most important thing is to keep away from windows. Glass is a real killer. Hear, hear. In Britain during the war, we had more trouble with glass than any single other thing. It shutters, you know, into bits and pieces no bigger than your eyelashes. If you're in a building, don't run outside. Run toward the center. For example, toward the stairwell. Most Americans' buildings are constructed fairly strongly. In fact, more so than most Japanese buildings. Many would be able to stand this double blast of the bomb. The first part, when the tremendous wind hits it within three seconds after the explosion. And within another three seconds, the push of the air coming back to fill in the vacuum. This blast then would be over in about ten seconds. It's wise, however, to stay down for a full minute or a little more to be safe from falling objects. Well, now, I don't know about you out there, but I'm making a few notes as we go along. As I get it, the first thing we'll have to be prepared for is heat. And after three seconds or so, as long as we're within the range of the bomb at all, all danger from that will be passed. Then on blast, after the first ten seconds following an explosion, all direct danger from that will be passed. But we better stay down for a minute anyway, just to be sure we don't get struck by some flying splinters. Now let's take radiation. Many people fear it more than anything else about the A-bomb. Now you're really coming to one of my special fields. For the past six years, we've been studying radiation sickness, its nature, and how to take care of it. And now I think we know some of the answers. It might surprise you, however, that in the Japanese cities, particularly Hiroshima, only 15% of the people who died were victims of radiation sickness. Yes, that does surprise me. We've been hearing some pretty fantastic tales. And that's a lot smaller figure than I would have guessed. I might say something about radiation, which is rather unusual. It is completely insensible, but I mean you can't touch it, taste it, see it, feel it, or hear it. But it always goes in a straight line, just like heat. And things will stop it. If you get behind a good thick earth or stone or metal wall, and particularly lead, and you have a good thickness of this material between you and the blast, you probably won't die, and such protection would certainly save your life. A good rough test, you might say, if you're in a building down two or three floors, is if you can get up, dust yourself off, and walk away after an A-bomb blast, you're probably safe. At least for the time. And if within two hours you still feel perfectly well, maybe a little nervous or shaky, but still well, the chances are very good. Well, I'm well for being prepared. What should we do in case we do feel sick? The best thing to do is to lie down and rest. Stay still in some safe place, not under a wall that's likely to fall, but stay there until the first aid man or a friend find you and take you to where you can be treated and treated well. At the present time, the best treatment is the prevention and control of the infection which may set in, and of course, blood transfusion. And now you're coming to my special field. How many pints of blood have you given, Mr. Hibbard? Thirty-five pints while I was in England, and nine more since I came here two years ago. Well, we'll need all that and a lot more if we're going to handle both burns and radiation following an A-blast. You must remember, a city like Rochester might have as many as 30,000 or 40,000 casualties of one kind or another in the first 48 hours. And that's a lot of patients, and that will require a lot of blood. And I might also add that it's figured, and good conservative figures too, that every patient will need as many as five trained medical people to take care of him. You know what I'm thinking right now, and that's will there be anything left of a city like Rochester after an A-bomb hits? Certainly, there'll be quite a lot left. Of course, in the central area, there'll be a lot of destruction. But the areas around it may be only partially damaged and easy to repair. In fact, in the Japanese city, the people picked up almost immediately. I'm reminded of the night in December 1940, when the Jerry's really hit Bristol high. One of my pals sent me a wire. Can you come and get my children out of this? I caught the night train that went through Birmingham. Well, we got through all right at 3 a.m., hours late, because the Jerry's unloaded 35,000 firebombs on the city that night. But I got the kiddies out and packed them off on the train, back through Birmingham where the rail station was burned out. The train made it, though. After all, you can't just stop everything. Could I put in here to remind all of us that what we're talking about may never happen? We certainly hope it never does. Still, there'll be no second chance. One bomb successfully exploded is all being needed for any city in New York State except New York City. I think the Americans can and will stand up as well as the English did. It takes more than one blow to knock out a champion. And the Americans today are champions. Meantime, for those of us who aren't scientists, there's a job of work cut out. There's lots to do in civil defense right here in Rochester. And not enough of us doing it so far, from what I hear. There's a job for everyone. You can start by asking questions in your city, any questions you think of. When you get one answer, ask another question. And when you learn as many answers as you can, you're that much more safe from panic and fear. Here's one question. Tell me, Mr. Hebert, what's the worst experience in an air raid? The worst experience is waiting for that first bomb to drop. And then after that, if you are prepared, everything seems to come natural. Of course, this naturalness is important and due to training. But you will remember that this suspense and possible panic could be the worst thing about an A-bomb warning. There will be only one explosion. And if you haven't done what you should have done, there will be no second chance for you. Dr. Joe W. Howland and Mr. Charles Hebert have given us a look at what it's like to face this thing. Now maybe we can admit that there will be no second chance without having to push the thought away from us. There is something we can do. We can plan how to lick whatever may come. Because we know that other cities and nations have done just that. And won out, too. All the way from London to Hiroshima. You've been listening to another in the series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival. Brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. This program was prepared by station WHAM in Rochester. We invite your comments on this new series over the Civil Defense Radio Network. Address your letters or postcards to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. That's Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. At the same time next week, we'll bring you another program in this new series of Plan for Survival. Be sure to listen and be sure to sign up for Civil Defense in your neighborhood. Remember, Civil Defense is common sense. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. We'll be right back.