The City of New York, Vincent R. Impelitieri, acting mayor, in cooperation with WPIX, presents At the Mayor's Desk. Every other Thursday at this time, we bring you a program of informal discussion between acting mayor Impelitieri and members of the city government. Now, ladies and gentlemen, here is your mayor, Vincent Impelitieri. Ladies and gentlemen, recently we met on television and discussed many of the aspects of our civil defense program. Of course, it's not our feeling that the people of the City of New York should be at all alarmed or panic-stricken about a possible atom bomb attack, but we feel as just practical, down-earth people that it is within the realm of possibility that New York City could be attacked and that New York City could be struck with an atom bomb. For that reason, our civil defense personnel have been working day and night in your interest and in my interest, in the interest of our city, in the interest of our state, and in the interest of our nation. There are a great number of aspects of civil defense which I want to talk to you about tonight. And tonight, for that reason, and that reason alone, as the acting mayor of this great city of New York, I have arranged for you to meet several of our outstanding public officials who are key members of our civil defense setup. First of all, I'd like to have you meet the gentleman to my right, Arthur W. Wallander, who's the director of civil defense. And before introducing the other key members of this team, I'd like to have you know Arthur Wallander. Arthur, at one time you were a cop. That's right, sir. And if I recall reading correctly, you got up through the ranks by civil service examination. That's right, Mr. Mayor. And eventually, you became the police commissioner of the city of New York. Yes, sir. Do you know anything about civil defense? Well, Mr. Mayor, I ought to know something about it. I had some experience in the last war under the mayor of LaGuardia. I was the chief of staff at that time, and we laid out quite an organization. It wasn't comparable to anything that we would have to do this time, but it was calculated to do a fair job during the last war. We've learned a lot since then. And I should say that this time we're not starting from scratch like we did the last time. We profit by trial and error. So now, now, let me get this straight. You were originally appointed from the career ranks of the police department of the city of New York by Mayor LaGuardia. Yes, sir. And during World War II, at the direction and appointment of Mayor LaGuardia, you headed up civil defense. That's right, sir. And when I commenced my administration, I asked you if you would continue on in heading up the civil defense program of the city of New York. You did that very graciously. And you agreed to do it. Yes, sir. And right now, you're on leave from a very good job with the Consolidated Edison Company. I think so. It's a pretty good job. And your services are costing the city of New York how much? Thank you very much. I wanted the people of the city of New York to know the gentleman who's heading up our civil defense program. Next, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to have you meet Ray Hilliard, who's the director of the Welfare Emergency Division of Civil Defense, who sits to my left. Ray, you know, the first time I ever heard about you, I was sitting as a member of the Board of Estimates, and your name was brought up for discussion as the new commissioner of welfare. And you were not a New Yorker. We wanted to know something about you. Where were you before you came to the city of New York? In the state of Illinois, Mr. Mayor. What city? Well, we had offices, the agency for which I worked, in Springfield, the state capital of Illinois, and Chicago. And I lived most of my life in the city of Chicago. And what was your particular job? Well, I was in charge of welfare activities in the state of Illinois as head of the Illinois Public Aid Commission. And you knew, did you not, that when we brought you on to the city of New York, that there was a law in the books called the Lyons Residence Law, which prevented the appointment of anybody to a city job unless he had unusually good qualifications. I recall that law, Mr. Mayor, and I am still very grateful to you and the other members of the Board of Estimates who voted to exempt me from the application of that law, together with a group of key people that I brought with me to straighten out the affairs of the city's Department of Welfare. So that you were brought on to the city of New York from Illinois, and the city of New York, through its elected representatives, agreed to waive the requirements of the Lyons Residence Law to bring you on to the city of New York. That is correct, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much, Ray. I just wanted the people to know something about your background. You didn't come from the city of New York. We had to waive certain legal requirements to bring you here. But bring you here, we did. And I was glad to vote for that particular waiver. Yeah, I say that I'm glad to be here. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the next fellow I want you to meet is a man that you've met before on this station. He's a fellow that everybody recognizes from coast to coast. He's the new police commissioner of the great city of New York, Tom Murphy, who's not only our police commissioner, but also is the director of the police emergency division of civil defense. Murphy, how do you do? Very well, Mr. Mayor. How do you like your new job? I love it. I'm glad to hear that, Tom. And from all reports I hear around the city of New York, you're doing a wonderful job. And as far as I know, nobody is telling you how to do it, including the mayor himself. Quite correct. Commissioner Wallander, in the event of an air raid warning alert, what is being done to prevent panic? Well, Mr. Mayor, that's one of our chief concerns. Panic is something that, unless it's controlled, and prevent it, it can cause a lot of casualties. We feel that very keenly. You know, one of the reasons we silenced sirens in this fair city was to give the people some mode of protection which they wouldn't have otherwise through the medium of the police and fire vehicles. We think that we have a pretty good audible signal that we can sound in the event that we get an alert from the Continental Air Command, which is likely to come at any time at all. Now, Commissioner, may I interrupt you just for a moment? You see, I'm just an average fellow, an average citizen of the city of New York. Now, when you say that you've silenced sirens, can you tell me and tell the people who are listening in just what you mean by that? Well, there were so many sirens that were used for emergency fixes that it would cause a confusion if these sirens were to continuously sound. It's only a temporary means of conveying the audible air raid alarm to the people. When we have established and affixed the regular sirens to the buildings and through strategic places within the city, we will abandon the use of the police and fire vehicle sirens. But nevertheless, Mr. Mayor, the sirens will of a necessity have to be silenced except for those that are affixed to the buildings within the city. Well, now... The one type of siren will be available. I still haven't answered the question. I'm getting to the question. When the... If in a building, we have set up a building control management within the building, within each building, through the meeting of the police department, who have visited many of the buildings and handed each of the management a number of detailed instructions which they're to comply with. And that provides for the selection of a reasonable shelter area within each building and a control of the personnel and building population should an air raid alarm sound. That means that when the air raid sounds, the people are to go to this here protected area that's been previously selected. And having gone there, they have to await further instructions for the all-clear. But unless that movement is orderly and precise and accurately scheduled, we will have trouble. So it hooses everybody to pay attention to instructions. Well, Commissioner, I'm going to get back to the original question I asked you. When you say that sirens are silenced to make it very plain and simple to the people that are listening in, do you mean that the siren that was ordinarily heard on the streets of New York coming from an ambulance, from a police car, from a fire car, or from any other type of vehicle that was adapted for use for emergency services, now has completely discontinued the use of the siren alarm signal? That's right, sir. It must be that way. And so that today there's no sirens on the city of New York at all, on police cars, ambulances, or any other type of such similar type of vehicle. The sirens are there, but the police and fire vehicles will only sound them in the event of an alert. That's exactly what I wanted to understand. So that, to make it simple, sirens are no longer permitted to be used by any of these vehicles, and if sirens are heard in the future, at least for the time being, that would indicate to the public at large that there was an air alarm warning. That's right, and the attack was imminent. Thank you. Now that clears it up in my mind, and I hope it clears it up in the mind of the public. Commissioner Murphy, you're a new police commissioner of the city of New York, and I'm very proud of my appointment. Now you haven't had too much time to catch up on with your new job as director of the emergency civil defense program affecting your department, but will you tell us what the police would do in the event of one of these alarms to prevent panic among the people of the city of New York? Well, Mr. Mayor, the police department realizes that in the event of an atomic attack, the population must not feel utterly hopeless, and all emergency measures must be well planned and organized in advance. Well-publicized police measures for protecting and forewarning the population serve as an emotional inoculation against hysteria and panic. Every individual in the community should know where to go and what to do. Every person must have some civil defense task. During periods of stress, the person who has a helpful task to perform is psychologically better off than one who must stand by in complete inaction. The police department proposes to combat destructive fear reaction by a truthful presentation of the inherent dangers of radiological warfare with a constant emphasis upon the principle of self-protection by the individual and extended to include mutual self-protection on the part of groups and communities. You will be interested, Mr. Mayor, to know that at the present time, an intensive five-day course is being presented and in time will include the entire 19,000 members of the force in order to prepare our personnel to meet the threat of radiological warfare and the resultant threat of panic. All volunteer members of the auxiliary service will be thoroughly trained and shall serve to keep the public well-informed of all aspects of defense against atomic attacks. Through the organization of the air warden service and the auxiliary police, we feel certain that we will be able to minimize the destructive effects of atomic weapons. We shall have post wardens, fire washers, building control wardens, bomb reconnaissance wardens, light duty rescue squad, emergency taxi corps, and communication personnel available to reduce personal hazards and to provide the necessary reassurance that will be effective to prevent panic. Special studies have already been made of police methods of preventing panic so that eventually, when the time comes, the police department will be prepared to apply revised and modern tactics to meet the exceses of modern warfare. Commissioner, one thing you said, uh, I think interests me and I think would certainly interest the people who are listening in. You said that, uh, as I understood it, that you have already in operation a five-day course for every policeman of the city of New York. That's correct, Mr. Mayor. And that course is adapted to do exactly what? To train the entire personnel in the police department from the commanding officers down to the patrolmen as to what they should do and how they should advise the Odile members what they should do in the time of atomic attack. Now, is this, uh, five-day course taken up as part of the regular duties of a police officer or is it taken up on his free time? No, Mr. Mayor, this is a voluntary act on the part of every member of the service. And what has been your, uh, percentage of cooperation in this effort? Exactly, a 100%. Commissioner Wallander, you told us about how you were going to take care of the people that are inside a building. But, uh, I'm concerned, and I know the people are, about the vast number of people that might be out on the streets of New York in the event of an imminent or an actual bomb attack. Well, Mr. Mayor, when they, uh, hear the air raid sign along, uh, every person on the street should seek some type of shelter. Uh, that shelter, uh, should be the shelter that's closest to them at the time. Uh, that which affords the best type of protection. Uh, we have gone on the premise that any, any kind of shelter is better than none because of the, uh, of the flying debris that would result from an atomic blast and the, uh, the heat wave that would result, uh, which could very well cause a casualty and if not death. So we say that any kind of cover is better than none. If you are traveling in a vehicle, whether it be a bus or a private car or a truck, uh, the thing then to do is to, uh, stop your vehicle and pull into the curb and, uh, seek shelter thereafter. Uh, that, uh, that is the, uh, the, uh, instructions that are being handed out to the people on the street. Thank you, Commissioner. Uh, Commissioner Hilliard, I have before me certain figures that indicate that since 1945 the International Refugee Organization alone has received almost a half a million requests to trace persons missing as a result of enemy action. Even now, just imagine this, five years after the war has ended, these figures indicate that the International Refugee Organization at the present time is sending out replies at the rate of approximately 60,000 each year. I am deeply concerned and I know the people of my city are deeply concerned about what will happen to our families in the city of New York in the event of a bomb attack and thousands of men, women, and particularly children are separated from their families. What are you and what is your department doing about this particular situation? Well, Mr. Mayor, the Emergency Welfare Division is well aware of the tragedy that follows the separation of families, the anxiety that ensues. For that reason, we have set up within the Emergency Welfare Division a central registration section for the purpose of keeping track of all civilians who will have to be rehoused or fed or located or clothed or who have left their homes for any reason whatsoever. We're not planning to register the entire population. I'm glad you pointed that out because that was my next question. I was wondering whether you planned on registering every resident of the City of New York. No, Mr. Mayor, that will not be necessary. We will, however, file pertinent data in this central registration section on all people who are separated from families, people who require clothing, people who require shelter or rehousing, and most particularly people who may become casualties as a result of a bombing. Now, that brings down another question. What do you propose to do about the registry of casualties? Well, first of all, Mr. Mayor, we'll have representatives at every spot that would seem to be a key point. For example, we'll have representatives of the Emergency Welfare Division at every police station, at every hospital, regrettably, at morgues. We'll have them at evacuation centers, at rest centers, and at emergency welfare centers. And there, the identifying information on each person will be secured and immediately forwarded to the central registration section where it will be recorded. Commissioner, in a situation like this, I've been informed by people who should know their subject matter that you're going to have cases of children who can't be identified, but the thing I'm particularly interested in is how about many of these kids who are around the streets or schools who will be so panic-stricken that they won't even know their own names or their addresses or anything of that kind? Well, in the first place, Mr. Mayor, there may be and probably will be some who can't be identified. Now, we're going to catalog people according to their physical characteristics as well as according to their names. Children, as you indicate, present the most important and probably the most critical problem. And there, parents can help a great deal by seeing to it that each child knows a few simple things, his name, his address, probably his telephone number and the name of his parent. If they'll drill that into the kids, that's going to help a great deal. And you recommend that the parents start to do that right now? Right now is exactly right. And how about the teachers in the school? Don't you think it'd be a good idea if they started right now to tell the children exactly the same thing that you suggest the parents? still. A most excellent idea and the teachers could emphasize that each school child teaches little brother or see to it his little brother knows these things. How will you register unidentified children, Commissioner? We hope to have some identification tag or something like that in use before very long. I think Commissioner Walder is developing some overall plans for identifying identification tags. Commissioner Hilliard, what other services will the emergency welfare centers be prepared to give civilians, civilians, victims of enemy action? Well, first of all, Mr. Mayor, our welfare centers will be focal points for all types of welfare services. In the main, these services will be, in addition to registration, food where necessary, shelter, clothing, guidance, and advice, which is very important in a time like that. Now, where are these welfare centers located? Frankly, since hearing about these things, I've looked for one in my own neighborhood, and I haven't been able to find one. Well, there isn't one as yet, Mr. Mayor, but there will be one soon. We expect them to have 47 throughout the city of New York at the start. Each one will be plainly identified by a large red, white, and blue sign, and it would behoove every resident of the city to know the location of his emergency welfare center. In the event that trouble comes, he will then know immediately where to go. Well, how is the average citizen of the city of New York going to know exactly where his emergency welfare center is located? First of all, Mr. Mayor, they'll be placarded with science. The locations will be widely publicized, and we hope for the cooperation of the press, television, radio, and acquainting people with locations. You always get the cooperation of the press, television, and radio, but when do you expect to let the people of the city of New York know exactly where these welfare emergency centers will be located? I believe within a matter of weeks, probably 30 days, they'll be set up. And you're setting that up in cooperation with Commissioner Waller? Yes. Now, Mr. Mayor, in addition to those emergency welfare centers, there are going to be available facilities in the form of rest centers, and all manner and sorts of reception centers, depending on what the need is. We'll identify the locations and use them if we have. Now, in the event of an attack, are all the citizens of the city of New York expected or required to go to one of these emergency welfare centers that you have told us about? No, indeed, Mr. Mayor. We hope that they won't because that would only overtax facilities. We do expect, however, that those who are in need of services, either to locate loved ones or other people that have been separated or to secure necessary food, shelter, clothing, direction, or information, those who need help should go, the others should not. In other words, the first things in your estimation should come first. Exactly. People that require your services will be expected to go there. The people that don't require your services are expected to resume their normal sphere of activity. Correct. Correct. Now, Commissioner, from the way you have described your particular end of this job, and it looks like a pretty big job, it looks to me as though some of your own facilities may be completely disrupted. They very well may be, and many of our locations may be knocked out altogether. And we are therefore planning the use of alternative means of communication, the use of alternative locations, buildings for either welfare centers, central headquarters, central registration units, and all other facilities. I believe we have enough alternative arrangements to cover almost any possibility. Commissioner Murphy, how will the police function following either an imminent bomb attack or after an actual bombing? officer, Mr. Mayor, the police department maintains a highly efficient missing person's bureau, as you know. And that department is being now geared to the exigencies of atomic attack. The entire statistical resources of the police department will be utilized to maintain accurate records of all persons who are missing or who have become casualties. Precinct station houses and zone and sector warden headquarters will be employed as temporary places of refuge for homeless persons and persons who have been separated from their families. Immediate efforts will be made through the police communication system and its central reporting agency to identify persons and to reunite families. The vast network of the police department's communication system stretches throughout the city and connects with every radio, motor patrol car, and every station house which will be available for this service. Referrals will then be made to the welfare department for temporary and permanent shelter and accurate records for the disposition of all persons and families will be maintained. Commissioner, you've got a large assignment there, but I want the people of the city of New York to know that, in my judgment, the people who are heading up this program, and you've had a perfect example tonight of the type of people that you have reason to have full confidence in, as I have, are doing everything possible to protect you and protect the city of New York in the event of a bomb attack. But please don't be disturbed about it. We're only taking necessary precautions, or at least that's the way we feel about it. In the meantime, go about your daily, average type of life. Enjoy yourselves. Tomorrow, for instance, I'm going to take time out from City Hall. I'm going up to Yankee Stadium, and I'm going to root just as hard as I can for the Yankees to win. After that, I'll get back to the business of attending to the affairs of the city of New York. And in the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, let me once again thank you for permitting me to come into your home and to tell you something about the government of the city of New York as it affects you. Thank you very much. At the Mayor's Desk is presented every other Thursday evening at this time. The next program will be October 19th. The Zeus being theовалиymn wound In the meantime, there may very young as always tell us what happened to do this like you, Keep Fish, the history, as always as always. Click Smith's consistent with neighborhoods and things save faces a lot of reasons made it happens for the people of free Tuesday away. before collisto. We're halfway through the east 19th of the Be running And now,uber. The U.S. It's a mystery everywhere With IPEL. It's a mystery, Tell us about Intel. Good to tell us about The Arab Emirates at this time with talks Fascinating, when you think the Straight and idea is