In opening WNYC's second annual American Art Festival, we present the director of the municipal broadcasting system, Seymour N. Siegel, Mr. Siegel. How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? WNYC will devote this entire coming week to its second annual American Art Festival. The acclaim from press and listeners alike for last year's Art Festival has encouraged WNYC's staff to continue this annual tribute to the unparalleled wealth of artists and art treasures in our city. Similar to its spring counterpart, the American Music Festival, the Art Festival is an ambitious and elaborate schedule of programs set up to encourage twin objectives. The first is to bring all our listeners up to date on the myriad activities in New York City's art world, to help familiarize our listeners with the work of the great masters of the past, and to encourage exploratory visits to our art museums, schools, and galleries. WNYC's second objective is to aid the development of discrimination in our taste, and the appreciation of the uniquely intense emotional stimulation that can be derived from contact with the masterpieces of our civilization's fine arts. I'd like to express the appreciation of WNYC's entire staff for the cooperation of the many personalities in the world of art who have given their time and knowledge so freely to the preparation of this festival, and most particularly to the coordinator again this year of the American Art Festival, Mr. Condon Riley, art consultant to WNYC, whose assistance has been invaluable. This second annual American Art Festival represents WNYC's continual effort to present culturally mature and literate radio programming to New Yorkers throughout the year. We hope that you will listen to as many of these special programs as possible during the coming week, and that you will write to us about them. To open our week's broadcast, we take you now to the Brooklyn Museum, where five outstanding members of the art world are about to participate in what we hope will be a brain-searching art quiz. Gentlemen of the panel, to your questions, WNYC's second annual American Art Festival is about to begin.