WNYC, your city station, invites you to listen to a portion of the ceremonies marking the dedication and blessing by His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, of the new Nurses' School and Residence of St. Clair's Hospital in Manhattan. The ceremonies mark also the 50th anniversary in religion of Mother Mary Alice of the Order of the Sisters of St. Francis, under whose inspiration and leadership St. Clair's Hospital has expanded in 17 years from a single small building with 45 beds to a modern medical center of six buildings with 440 beds. We're speaking to you from the site of the new seven-story $1,500,000 building which Cardinal Spellman has just blessed and marked with a dedicatory crucifix in the main lobby. During this portion of the ceremonies, you will hear from His Eminence, the Cardinal, from Mayor Impeletere, from Civil Defense Administrator Arthur W. Wallander, from State Comptroller J. Raymond McGovern, representing Governor Dewey, and from Dr. Maurice Costello, President of the Executive Committee of the Medical Board of the Hospital. The next voice you hear will be that of the very Reverend Monsignor John J. Curry, Director of Health and Hospitals of New York Catholic Charities, who will introduce the speakers. Monsignor Curry. Thank you, David Allen. It is now my pleasure to introduce Dr. Maurice Costello, President of the Executive Committee of the Medical Board of St. Clair's Hospital, with a word of greeting from Mother Alice and the staff of St. Clair's. Dr. Costello. Your Eminence, Cardinal Spellman, Reverend Mother Alice, Your Honour Mayor Impeletere, the Honourable Mr. McGovern, Comptroller of the State of New York, Commissioner Walder, Reverend Clergy, doctors and nurses and friends of St. Clair's Hospital. I wish to extend to Reverend Mother Alice the congratulations of the 250 members of the medical staff on this, the 50th anniversary of her religious life. God uses his finest instruments, those tempered by prayer and sacrifice, to perform his great works. Mother Alice has been such an instrument. She has a joyful, generous heart and a great love of God, as shown by her charity to the sick and the poor. How old is Mother Alice? It is said that her age lies between 1 and 70. As a matter of fact, she is ageless, because she has the simplicity of a child, the hope and dreams of youth, the spirit of a young woman, the enterprise of maturity, and the wisdom of age. If the age of a person is determined by his accomplishments, then Mother Alice is at least 1,000 years old. Mother Alice and the Sisters of St. Francis have built fine hospitals, which have greatly contributed to American life and education. The successful completion of this nurse's training school is the current example. The dedication of this training school, to be known as Regina Chaley Hall, coincides with the golden jubilee of Mother Alice. May the Queen of Heaven inspire and protect all young women who shall be trained here. May they model their lives on the life of this humble nun, this exemplary American Irish leader, Reverend Mother Alice. Thank you, Dr. Costello. I am happy indeed now to present New York City Civil Defense Administrator Arthur W. Wallander, who will tell us that part of a general hospital in the civil defense program. Commissioner Wallander. Monsignor Curry. The Remnants Cardinal Spellman. Mayor Impeletere. Controller McGovern. Mother Alice. Distinguished speakers. Distinguished clergy. And ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to come here and join you at the dedication exercise of St. Clair's New Nursing School. I think it's a great tribute to Mother Alice for the fine work she's put into this great vision and great thinking. During my many years of public office in New York City and in my present capacity as Director of Civil Defense, I have built up many close ties with St. Clair's Hospital. I, like millions of other New Yorkers, have watched this hospital grow, and consequently I share the joy Mother Alice and these sisters feel today at this dedication of the latest milestone in their chosen path of service to humanity. Yes, I am happy today, but unfortunately my joy over the erection of this imposing structure is tempered in these times by the thought that someday, in a few seconds, all that took years to build might be leveled by an enemy attack. I believe that my present preoccupation with civil defense makes me realize this more keenly than most people do. We live a strange life. Today, while man with one hand builds noble structures to benefit all mankind, with the other hand he molds awful weapons which can wipe out all that he has built. It seems sometimes that God is blessing the world with many benefits such as this nursing school, but is giving them only conditionally warning men that they can enjoy these things only if they maintain their sanity and refrain from world suicide. In other recent wars, hospitals enjoyed some degree of immunity. We could paint their roofs with huge red crosses and know that these symbols would be interpreted as saying, this is a work of mercy. This is above warfare, and bombardiers seeing these crosses could so aim their bombs as to preserve these buildings and structures. We can't now pinpoint an atom bomb or a guided missile or other forms of attack which science may later develop in warfare. We could paint a red cross on the roofs of every hospital in New York, but that will not prevent its destruction. Hospitals, schools, churches, factories, homes, many might well vanish in the first attack. You all know these things. You've seen pictures in the newspapers. St. Clair's Hospital, like every hospital in the city, knows its planned part. What to do to save human life from the ruins. Master plans have been drawn. Plans coordinating the work of every hospital. More detailed studies have been made telling what each nurse, each doctor, each worker must do at such a time. Let me tell you what St. Clair's has planned as an indication of the steps all of us must take to prepare ourselves. A general disaster plan has been drawn up. It has three parts. The first part concerns enlarging the capacity of the hospital. Every available inch of space, corridors, officers, parlors has been allocated its task. With this plan, we estimate that St. Clair's can increase its bed capacity by more than one third in the event of an emergency. The second phase of this plan appoints specific jobs for every member of the hospital staff and organizes emergency teams to render the quickest aid possible. The third part of the disaster plan covers equipment and supply, lists the necessities of each department, maps storage facilities, and charts routes over which equipment can be moved with a minimum amount of confusion or wasted time. It is a meticulously worked out plan, but not a final one. It can still be amended or enlarged. In the event of attack, the area which surrounds this hospital would lie in special peril. Its proximity to the North River docks make it a certain specific target for attack on our lifelines of transportation. The long-standing tenements of this neighborhood afford the flimsiest sort of physical protection against attack. And we are deeply concerned with this particular neighborhood and others like it. The congested streets, the heavy concentration of population in these blocks, make it an exceptionally vulnerable target. These things all combine to place a large burden on this hospital. It must stand as a guardian of the people who have come to know it as a neighbor. Its role in our planning is as vital as the lives that may be saved here. Seventeen years ago, St. Clair's came to this neighborhood as a stranger. It has become a dear and respected friend. Its neighbors lean on it in peacetime. How much more, then, will they look to it should war come? But we may all rest assured that this hospital, founded and built with such a spirit of devotion and courage, will stand ready, as ever, to serve its people in their hour of greatest need. Thank you. Thank you indeed, Commissioner Walliner. It is now my privilege to introduce to you an old and tried friend of St. Clair's Hospital. His honor, the mayor of the city of New York, mayor and military. Your Eminence, Cardinal Spellman, Mother Alice, Comptroller McGovern, Commissioner Wallander, Dr. Costello, Right Reverend and Very Reverend Monsignore, Your Excellencies, Reverend Fathers, Sisters, Ladies and Gentlemen. I am very happy indeed to be with you today at this ceremony, which marks another great achievement of those whose devotion to St. Clair's has made it today one of the really great voluntary hospitals of the city of New York in a relatively short space of 17 years, since its very humble beginnings in 1934. All of you who have taken part in that development, Mother Alice and the Sisters of the Third Order of St. Francis, Cardinal Spellman, the medical staff, the sisters and nurses, and the thoughtful citizens of our community deserve the very generous gratitude of all the people of the city of New York. I want to express that gratitude on behalf of the people of the city of New York and for myself as mayor and as a neighbor and friend in this West Side area who has observed and has been extremely proud of the achievements of St. Clair's. The summer of 1951, unfortunately, finds America face to face with the grave challenge of proving to the free peoples of the world that our system of government and our way of doing things are incomparably better for the common man than anything communism can offer him. Our nation is girding its strength, mustering its youth, stepping up its tremendous productive capacity, largely in preparation to meet the challenge of communism. Since one of our prime exhibits of the American system is the public health, this hospital, as a guardian of the public health, is confronted directly by one aspect of this great challenge America faces. Hospitals, too, must mobilize their resources for the emergency, and they are faced with very serious shortages of manpower. According to expert testimony, here are the facts. In 1954, this nation faces an estimated probable shortage of 22,000 physicians. and we face an even more critical shortage of nurses in 1954. That deficit is estimated at over 83,000. This year, hospital officials estimate that 58,000 nursing candidates must be admitted to nursing schools as compared, for instance, to 44,000 who were admitted last year. These figures indicate the breadth of the challenge facing our public health facilities today. Without adequate facilities for advanced training and experience in hospitals, the medical profession cannot grow and progress to meet its responsibilities to public health. hospitals generally cannot meet their expanding needs or responsibilities if they lack an adequate supply of registered nurses. Thus, it may be said that the public health depends in large measure on the trained nurse. much of the burden of safeguarding the public health in the greater New York area falls upon the voluntary non-profit institutions such as St. Clair's. Of the more than 33,000 hospital beds in this area, 60% or 20,000 are in voluntary hospitals. Truly, hospitals such as St. Clair's are vital to the public health and consequently, they must do much to meet the challenge of the times. But St. Clair's has met challenges before. Let us go back a few years. Most of you remember 1934, a bleak year of depression, unemployment, poverty. This neighborhood here knew full well what depression meant. There were sick children, ailing mothers, desperate fathers, and no hospital in the neighborhood to help alleviate their suffering. Every crisis, however, somehow or another produces a remedy. In this crisis, the answer came from the third order of the Sisters St. Francis. The order sent to New York Mother Mary Alice and a small group of nuns to found a hospital in this area of great need. At first, it wasn't much of a hospital. Its tangible assets were 45 beds, a supply of linen, a makeshift operating room, and a handful of volunteer workers. But however, they did have a nucleus, small, but a devoted, sincere nuns. But because Mother Alice and her sisters refused surrender to initial adversities, St. Clair's group as early as 1938. A new wing was added. Four years later, another. And in 1948, still another, the McNally Pavilion. I had the extreme pleasure of participating in that dedication. Now, let's look at St. Clair's today. It now has 440 beds and is the second largest Catholic hospital in the city. Last year, it treated 13,000 patients in its beds and had 36,000 patient visits in its clinics. From one small building, it has grown to six. We dedicate this sixth, this beautiful school of nursing, here today. And as we heard earlier in the program, and I think as the Monsignor so wisely observed, and as I read in the newspaper the other day, when Mother Alice heard about the projected sale of the Empire State Building, she cast her eyes in that direction, too. But this is how Mother Alice met one challenge after another. This building is proof of what St. Clair's is now doing to meet a new challenge, this challenge to American public health. In building this beautiful structure and founding within it a school of nursing, St. Clair's is following two traditional patterns, the training of nurses by hospitals and the training of nurses by religious sisters. In the history of the Catholic Church, band after band of noble souls have bound themselves to vow to spend their material substance and life itself in devotion to the poor and sick. The modern hospital is more than a bed, a nurse, and an operating room. It is a complex structure designed to care for all who are ill in all age categories and in all types of circumstances. the poor as well as the rich. That's the importance. Today's nurse must be a highly trained technician as well as a symbol of healing, mercy, and compassion. It is splendid and fitting that St. Clairs should plan to perpetuate itself by having its own school of nursing. Considering its rapid growth and its fine reputation, St. Clairs might be called a modern miracle, a miracle that is growing daily as its buildings rise and its reputation spreads. To the people of this neighborhood, St. Clairs is more than a building. It is a temple of charity. People turn to the sisters here for every kind of help. Mother Alice is looked upon by many in this neighborhood as something of a fairy godmother. This Regina Challey Hall is her latest achievement and it is a great one indeed. One and a half million dollars is rather an imposing figure. Building material shortages loomed as a constant threat while this building was in the actual process of erection. But she remained undaunted. She knew the need. She saw and met the challenge. In September, the first class of students will enter this building. They will be guided by the spirit of Saint Francis, the patron saint of these noble nuns, the spirit of Mother Alice, and the spirit of Saint Clair's. Such a combination cannot fail to produce an outstanding soldier in the army of the public health, ready and able to serve both her country and her god. applause Thank you, Mayor Impeleteri, for those splendid, inspiring words. We will now hear from the personal representative of His Excellency, Governor Dewey, the Honorable J. Raymond McGovern, Comptroller of the State of New York. Thank you. Your Eminence, Your Excellencies, Right Reverend, Very Reverend Monsignore, Reverend Fathers and Religious, Mother Alice, Distinguished and Honored Guests and Ladies and Gentlemen, there has been assigned to me the very pleasant and delightful task of representing His Excellency, Governor Thomas E. Dewey, at this ceremony. And I have been especially instructed to convey to Mother Alice Governor Dewey's warmest personal greetings and congratulations upon our golden jubilee. Fifty years of service to the sick, the poor, and unfortunate is more than sufficient to renew one's faith and confidence in mankind. time. While Mother Alice's ultimate reward will not be in this world, certainly this beautiful structure will all withstand as a miniment to a portion of her accomplishments. I have also been requested on behalf of Governor Dewey to congratulate all those of St. Clair's Hospital who have worked so hard for this new nursing home, a most needed addition to your hospital, a hospital which, like all Catholic hospitals, has never turned anyone away in need from its doors regardless of race, age, religion, color, or financial standard. There are many today who have grave concern over the future of our voluntary hospitals as there has been a growing fear of the trend and tendency towards government ownership and operation, which seems to be advancing as the need for medical care steadily increases. particularly is this true as the ever-increasing tax burden upon our citizens seems to make less and less money available for charitable causes. Coming here today, however, would give anyone the thrill of confidence and faith in our free system of government. Certainly, the voluntary hospital is a symbol of our free institutions. As long as we have Catholic charities and our St. Clair hospitals, we may be assured that our free society as we have known it in this country will continue. It would indeed be a very happy world if all the leaders of the great nations possess the same spirit of brotherly love and goodwill to fellow man as has been exemplified by Mother Mary Alice during her years of service to St. Clair's hospital. Personally, I take great pride and pleasure in bringing to St. Clair's hospital and to Mother Alice the congratulations and cordial best wishes of the state of New York for continued success and for greater service. I am also extremely happy to add my own personal congratulations and good wishes to Mother Mary Alice for the many, many continuous years of additional useful service. To the officers, medical staff and nurses, and to all who have contributed so much to make this marvelous new nursing home a reality, I extend congratulations and every good wish for greater and broader service. Thank you very much, Controller McGovern. It is now my honor and it is the privilege of all of us to hear from His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Monsignor Curry, Bishop Scully, Bishop Kurtz, Father Plasman, and my brother Priest, Controller McGovern, Dr. Costello and members of the medical staff, Mother Alice, Mother Jean Marie, Sisters of St. Francis and members of the other religious orders, residents, interns, nurses, and personnel of St. Clair's Hospital, and friends of Mother Alice. I am grateful to the Mayor of the City of New York, to the Commissioner of Defense, and to Control McGovern for their presence here this afternoon, and for the messages which they brought to us. This is an especially memorable and blessed day in the life of the Archdiocese of New York, for it marks the dedication of a school and residence for nurses in St. Clair's Hospital. And it commemorates also the golden anniversary of the religious life of St. Clair's great nurse and benefactress and founder, Mother Alice. Thousands have come to know Mother Alice throughout her lifetime of devoted ministry to the poor and the sick, to whom she has been both friend and mother. As with mournful hearts and oft times tortured minds, they groped in the night fog of their pain and their misery. These and still other thousands have come to know her through her many and diverse accomplishments as she won the title of Doctor of Sick Hospitals. For Mother Alice has not only tended and helped to give new life to the helpless sick and diseased as she alleviated their sorrow and suffering, but too, she has given new life to hospitals as she renovated the old and built new ones, increased bed capacities and installed modern equipment, founded new training centers for nurses and social service students, initiated and expanded clinics, and in one in one hundred ways helped to multiply the hospitals' many merciful services to their sick. All her years, Mother Alice has selflessly spent herself for the afflicted and needy, reaching out her strong yet tender hands in the name of the Divine Physician and His Blessed Mother Mary, whom she has faithfully striven to emulate. During her fifty years of service, never has Mother Alice asked who called, but only where was she needed. As under the banner of God's charity, she lavished her love and care upon all, asking no reward for a lifetime of devoted labors for her fellow man, except the spiritual grace and physical strength to help and to heal them. Her capabilities, her humility, and her goodness have made her every act a consecrated thing. For Mother Alice chose to be humble rather than great, yet truly great is she in charity. Her love of man is excelled only by her love of God, and upon her noble, compassionate heart are indelibly written these words, O God, who art truth, make me one with thee in everlasting charity. On this inspiring occasion of Mother Alice's Golden Jubilee, with proud and grateful heart, I have presented to her the first religious of the Archdiocese of New York to receive it, a golden Benny Morenti medal for faithful service, a medal especially blessed for her by the Holy Father. And I pray a prayer that we may all follow her example and fearlessly face the challenge of our times in a mighty crusade of charitable, godly living. O life-giving Father Father in Heaven, Father in Heaven, whose breath is life to man's body and whose spirit is health to man's soul, bless we beseech thee this new addition to Mother Alice's Hospital, Temple of Mercy, Haven for the Helpless. Fortify sufferers who are this day and who are yet to be patients here to carry their cross of pain and to master their fears through faith in thee. Bless and sanctify them in spirit and be unto them, O God, their strength and divine support. Spirit of charity of the blessed Trinity, by whom God loves man and man loves God, save this dying world, dying of hatreds, dying of horrors, dying of wars. Teach it thy sacred secrets, the mystery, the meaning, and the mission of thy love. Reveal thy living beauty through thy shining shadow in the heart of a humble nun, a Franciscan nun's heart, an Irish nun's heart, an American nun's heart. Spirit of St. Francis, image of Christ crucified, image of man crucified, by the spirit of love abiding within thee, take on man's woes as Christ took on man's woes, and from the shoreless ocean of love send forth thy spirit, thy holy healing spirit, rushing down the ages and torrents of questing love to make man Franciscan in spirit. Spirit of St. Clair, sister to Christ's spirit, sister to the soul of St. Francis, who made us thyself poor with the poverty of Christ, pure with the purity of Christ, and meek with the meekness of Christ, thou didst become to women, as Francis was to men, a mothering, challenging, valorous spirit. Spirit of Jesus, changeless, in a changing will, presiding ever in love, in thy vision and wisdom, thou hast marked the rolling years, and chosen one noble heart, a woman's heart, a valiant heart, a loyal heart. Fifty golden years ago, thou didst fill it with thy spirit, and call Mother Alice to be a sister of St. Francis, sister of St. Clair, that she loved God like St. Francis and live like St. Clair. Spirit of the Father, Father of the Savior, Father of our saints, thou didst bless this valiant woman with thy spirit, with thy power, and thy soul-saving mission. Thou didst send her on love's orbit, seeking out thy helpless poor, laying healing hands, on thy afflicted, with a heart, a mothering heart, where the homeless find shelter, where the storm-tossed seek a haven, where the ailing come for comfort. May the God of mercy bless her, bless her hands, and bless her heart, bless her with the blessing of St. Francis and St. Clair. You have been listening to a special broadcast from St. Clair's Hospital in Midtown Manhattan, where His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman, Mayor Vincent Impeleteri, State Comptroller J. Raymond McGovern, Civil Defense Administrator Arthur W. Wallander, and Dr. Maurice Costello, President of the Executive Committee of the Medical Board of St. Clair's, have participated in ceremonies dedicating the new $1,500,000 nurses school and residents of the hospital. The ceremonies marked also the 50th anniversary in religious life of Mother Mary Alice of the Order of the Sisters of St. Francis, the superintendent and foundress of the hospital. And now we return you to our studios in the municipal building for the program Symphonic Matinee, which is in progress. This is WNYC, New York City's own station. Thank you. Thank you.
