Again, radio's microphones are in front of City Hall, and all-important Fire Prevention Week and the ceremonies opening this week are part of the program today. Under the auspices of the Fire Department of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Frank J. Quayle, Commissioner, the Honorable Frank Murphy, Chief of Staff of Operations, Peter Loftus, Chief of Department, and William J. Hennessey, Assistant Chief of Staff of Operations. And now Commissioner Quayle. Fire Department Band and Fleet Club and the National Anthem. Fire Department of the City of New York, the National Anthem. Oh, there you are. Watch it. Oh, say, as you see, by the dawn's early light, One so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight. All the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, And the bombs bursting in air, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, members of the New York Fire Department, our school children, ladies and gentlemen, this is Fire Prevention Week, and so proclaimed by President Truman and Mayor Impeliteri. But as most of us realize, every week should be Fire Prevention Week, for fire destroys all year round, not only property, but human life. It is especially important that we make every week from now on a week devoted to preventing fires, for in destroying industrial plants and materials, they impair the production of supplies essential not only to the welfare of the people, but for the defense of our country. This was recently emphasized by Mayor Impeliteri in proclaiming the Prevention Week. He noted that President Truman had declared it was imperative for our country to keep itself strong in manpower and productive facilities. Then our good mayor sounded the warning that continued operation of our defense and the production of essentials for our national defense should not be impaired by needless fires. No loyal American would deprive our troops and other United Nations forces in Korea of materials necessary to their glorious fight for freedom and democracy. Yet fire does that very thing that we all want to prevent. So you see why it is your patriotic duty to prevent fires by your deeds and by spreading the gospel of fire prevention. You children from the city's public and parochial schools who are here today to receive the medals from Mayor Impeliteri which you have earned with your splendid essays on fire prevention are aware of the grim toll taken each year in this city by fire. Last year here in New York City, 120 persons met their tragic deaths and fires. 25 of these victims of fire were little children. 36 other deaths were caused by careless smokers. And here let me observe that the light of cigarette still heads the list of the causes of needless disastrous fires. The property lost from fires in the city last year, there were more than 44,000 of them, exceeded $20 million. And in extinguishing these fires, thousands and thousands of them preventable, six of our firefighters were killed, and nearly a thousand of them injured. Some of these casualties suffered by the heroes of the fire department were the result of malicious false alarms. And any person who turns in the false alarm in these times comes close to being a traitor to the United States. The police are the most vulnerable. To return for a moment to the careless smokers. You all know that we have a critical housing shortage. The careless smokers made this situation more acute by making hundreds of families homeless last year in addition to snuffing out the lives of innocent men, women, and children. A final word to the 525 pupils of our public and parochial schools who are about to be rewarded by our mayor for their excellent essays on fire prevention. We are all proud of you. For your competitors in this essay contest numbered 200,000 of your classmates in the city's public and parochial schools. But this most helpful contribution to the fight for fire prevention would not have been possible without the all-out cooperation which the fire department received from the admirable and unselfish teachers in the grammar grades from 5A to 8B. I wish now to express my gratitude to these teachers one and all for their fine work in making this happy occasion possible. America will be sang by the fire department B club. America will be sang by the definetale who is 215 to 7B and olehゆ detention And theив Brittany and the invasional Sweet land of liberty of the I.T. Land where my father died, Land of the pilgrims' pride, From every mountainside, Let free of things. It is my pleasure and privilege at this time to present to you the Acting Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeliteri. Commissioner Quayle, thanks for that slip. Commissioner Quayle, Commissioner Murphy, Officer Murphy, Officers and members of the New York City Fire Department, the parents of the prize-winning boys and girls, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know of a better way to start off this program than to call the attention, particularly of the children and of the parents as well, to the don'ts and the do's that are on the back of the program that everyone has here today. I think if we start off with these don'ts and do's, just as Commissioner Quayle has so properly pointed out, every day in the year, 365 days, will be known as Fire Prevention Day. I'm happy on this occasion that both Commissioner Quayle, who heads up the most wonderful fire department in the entire country, and Commissioner Murphy, who heads up the finest police force in the entire world, are here on this occasion. Commissioner Quayle, of course, has the obligation, the duty and the responsibility of heading up the fire department, and he does a splendid job. But the police commissioner also has an interest in this program, and that's the reason that Commissioner Murphy is here to indicate to Commissioner Quayle and to the members of the fire department that all of the forces at his command in the police department are wholeheartedly cooperating with Commissioner Quayle and the members of the fire department in this fire prevention program. As your acting mayor, I am happy to be here this morning to greet particularly you boys and girls who have written prize-winning essays on fire prevention. I don't know whether you realize just how important is the work that you have done. Your words of warning on the danger of fire may one day be read by a boy or girl whose life will be saved by what you have told him. Last year alone, 25 children were killed by fire in our city. Their debts were tragic and needless. They would be alive today if the warnings and rules set forth in these essays of yours had been known and heeded. Therefore, you must realize that each one of you in writing his essay has done an important thing for the welfare of the people who live in the city of New York. You have helped our city in its battle to prevent fires and save life. I am exceedingly proud of you today. I join with your parents and your teachers in their happiness and their thanks for each and every one of you. Thank you very much. Before the mayor awards the medals, I desire to take this opportunity of expressing not only his appreciation, appreciation of the fire department and the city of New York's 8 million people, to the New York Board of Fire Underwriters who for a number of years now has paid for the purchase of the medals that we are about to award to the school children. I know that you join with me in expressing that appreciation to them. The mayor will step down to the front of the rostrum and will pin the medals on the school children. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletteri is now leaving the stand with Commissioner Quayle in order that he may award these medals. The weatherman, of course, I suppose we need water to put out fires, but he's threatened to douse this gathering here today, but we've had a few sprinkles but no real rain. Last year, 120 men, women, and children were killed in fires in the city of New York. Most of these deaths, of course, were unnecessary, like most of the city's 44,407 fires, which destroyed property valued at $20,249,930. Of these 120 people who lost their lives in fire, as Mayor Impeletteri pointed out, 25 were children and the fire department lost six of its heroes in these fires, which injured 985 firefighters. Officially, by proclamation of President Truman and acting Mayor Impeletteri, this is Fire Department Week, but every week should be Fire Department Week. And here are some of the Fire Prevention Weeks, I should say. Fire Department, too, because they are concerned with fires. Now, here's some of the don'ts. Don't use gasoline, naphtha, or benzene in the house. Don't use lighted candles to search cellars or closets. Don't put ashes in wooden barrels or cardboard cartons. Don't permit accumulations of rubbish anywhere. Don't have draperies near open flames. Don't fill kerosene stoves after dark. Don't overload electric wires by using too many appliances from the one outlet. And look at those wires and examine them from week to week, what condition they're in. Don't leave the paint cans uncovered. Don't be a careless smoker. Don't run electric wires under rugs. Now, here are some of the positives or do's. Do keep matches in metal containers out of the reach of the very young children. Do examine heating system and chimney for defects. Do see that ashtrays are available in every room. Do replace frayed electric wires. They are very dangerous and a great hazard. Do recharge fire extinguishers and keep them available. Now, do keep fire escapes clear and unobstructed. Do keep oily rags in closed metal containers away from any confined or hot space. Do check your home for cellar and attic rather for rubbish and other accumulations that we have the habit of sticking away in the attic or cellar. If you really can't use it, get rid of it. Do call the fire department in case of fire, no matter how small. Do know where your nearest fire alarm box is located so that you can immediately make a contact in case of an emergency. We've taken the opportunity to read these do's and don'ts drawn up by your fire department, and it's necessary that as good as citizens you cooperate. Fire Prevention Week was proclaimed here in front of City Hall today, and now as Mayor Vincent Impellateri is pinning the medals on the very proud breasts of these youngsters who have won their essays in fire prevention in the schools of the City of New York, well, they're very happy and very proud to be acknowledged by the Mayor of the City of New York as alert young citizens who understand the hazards and the liabilities of a great wonder city where approximately eight million people congregate, make their homes, and live week in and week out under the protection and guidance of your city departments, and if you'll only cooperate particularly this week with your fire department in the matter of fire prevention, why, you'll come through perfectly safe and sound and be proud to be a New Yorker. Well, that's about all we have to bring you now from City Hall. The Mayor has just about reached the final medal as the proud little youngster looks up in the Mayor's face and smiles. The photographers are clicking and in your daily periodicals and movie theaters you'll see replicas of this event in front of City Hall. Now, don't only have this fire prevention week. There are 52 weeks in the year. This is the reminder week. 52 weeks in the year cooperate, prevent fires, remove rubbish, all hazards from around your premises. Have them neat and clean and pleasant and you'll be a good and happy citizen and live under the best and safest conditions. Don't have another 25 children killed in fires this year or next year or any year. Or don't injure 985 firemen because of fire alarms to which they respond. And the tragedy, as Mayor Impeletere pointed out, and Commissioner Quayle, is the fact that some of these men are killed and injured on that most tragic of all things, the false alarm. Do your part as good citizen. Observe fire prevention week. And don't forget another duty this week as well. You must register in order to vote. Now, visit the polling places early. Don't leave it till the end of the week and then jam up on the registration boards. Register early and you will know then that you can vote. If you do not register, you cannot vote. Well, that's all from City Hall. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.