Will the meeting please come to order. For the last three days, many very busy people have been participating in workshops, giving their best thinking to the problem of communication. You today are going to have the benefit of these cooperative efforts when you hear the summaries by these four workshop chairmen. In fact, you will be encouraged to ask questions or make contributions of your own after these formal presentations. Our first chairman will be Dr. Elwood Murray of the University of Denver, who will give us a summary of his workshop on what are the problems of communication in human relations. Dr. Murray. Would that we're within our power to communicate adequately concerning this very broad topic. What are the problems of communication in human relations? What can we say that will not be mere words? Or there will not be mere words about words. The problems of communication in humans are very similar, if they're not often the same, as the problems of human relations themselves. In fact, each seems to be a function of the other. Wherever there are problems in human relations in the world today, there appear, upon sufficiently deep inspection, there will be problems of communication. And the obverse also appears to operate, almost with the certainty of a law. Wherever there is a problem of communication, there will be found to be problems of human relations. The great problems of our time are problems of the relationship of person to person, of mind meeting mind, of the release of human energy's abilities and skills in the unification and progress of our enterprises. At the same time, these same problems turn out to be complicated messes of communication disorders. In the family which is breaking up, the industry which is beset with low morale and productivity, the classroom which is not progressing, the community in which there is too much crime, and among the nations who are going to war, there are communication blockages, communication confusions, communication misunderstandings, and mis-evaluations going into the messages. There is an inability to look, to listen, to speak, and to write according to that which is real and that which is important. There is inability to make contact without offending the sensibilities. The most important product which the little and big the mental and physical iron curtains keep out are the facts, the truth, and goodwill. The most important results of this are error and misunderstanding, fear, antagonism, guilt, and eventually conflict. Human relations have to do with the behavior of persons toward each other. They have to do with the interacting of persons as they carry on their moment-to-moment adjustments toward each other in carrying through their various activities of living. Human relations and interpersonal relations have to do with the attitudes and reactions which go on among the members of a family, a vocation, a classroom, a community, and the contacts with persons of other nations. Interpersonal relations occur in time as well as in space. They include the attitudes and adjustments which persons make to other persons in the past and future as well as in the present, which is done through language. The adjustments which we call human relations may occur just between two persons or they may be set off in complicated chain reactions which multiply to affect the morale and productivity of a whole classroom, a whole business enterprise, and a whole nation, and eventually a whole world, as in a world war. The relationship of one person with another may be strictly a one-way reaction by one person, or it may have mutuality and reciprocation. Adequate interacting among persons involves timing of the behavior toward each other. The behavior must not be too late or too soon. It involves continuing and terminating that behavior. It must not be too short or too long sustained. It involves intensity of the behavior. It must not be overdone or underdone. In smooth human relations, the behavior must be right for that situation. It must have suitable quality. In the last analysis, perhaps each must do toward each other as he would be done by. Furthermore, relationships among human beings are in constant flux and change. They are more and they are less. The attitudes and behavior which goes on silently inside persons, whether or not it is observable, increases and diminishes. The behavior may be worsening toward conflict or it may be improving toward collaboration and affection. Human relations are above all dynamic. They are never static. For whatever the relationship among persons may be, communication in whatever form it may take serves to change the relationship, to enhance it, to reduce it, to integrate or disintegrate as the case may be in the situation. Adequate communication serves to influence in the direction of greater wisdom and warm collaboration. The less adequate messages contribute to illusion, to misinformation, to strain, to tension, to breakdown. Adequate communication is timed according to the events to be adjusted to and the persons who must adjust to them. It says enough of the right thing. It then stops. It does not overemphasize. As a general semanticist reiterate, the structure of the messages must coincide with the structure of the events they purport to represent. Now the first impairment to the communication process is physical. Color blindness, tone deafness, any defect in the organs of sensation and perception or in the functioning of the brain and in central nervous system in the motor aspects of speech, writing, drawing, or music may block this communication process or confuse it. Physical injuries, high fevers, diseases may impair the ability to receive and evaluate information and to formulate and transmit messages. Various specialists in the medical profession with assistance from the speech and reading clinics must be relied upon for help in these defects. Since most of these difficulties have psychological and semantic involvements, these specialists must have certain psychological and psychiatric backgrounds to do their work. A second sort of impairment to the communication process has to do with disorders which are strictly psychological and semantic. Blockages, confusions, distortions, and mis-evaluations may occur in situations according to their resemblance to earlier situations of the communicator. When there is response to similarities only, instead of similarities and differences in our situations, impulsiveness, prejudice, dogmatism, and oversimplification may be projected instead of discretion and proper evaluation. The most pervasive and evasive communication disorder comes from our reacting to the images which were set up in us as if these images were the outside events with which we must deal. Something similar to what is called stage fright in public speaking situations also occurs in a variety of forms and situations where we listen, where we read, or where we write. In stage fright, we have fear and many other unpleasant manifestations which keep us from contributing in situations where we might well be leaders. We unconsciously and impulsively resist. We dodge. We find excuses. We stay away or we stay out of these situations. Similarly with reading, listening, and writing situations. We may have reading fright. We may have listening fright. Or we may have writing fright which comes in on specific situations to constrict our communication capacity. Whatever experiences in the past have built up our attitudes of fear and avoidance and dislike of our language operates to cut down our intake of information and our use of it in many vital areas of our lives. Old-fashioned drill and testing on the three R's which is so vehemently demanded in some quarters today frequently defeats and frustrates its purpose by building various fears of writing, reading, and arithmetic situations on a basis similar to the fears or stage fright in speech situations. Correct spelling cannot be ensured any better than correct pronunciation if the child has been made to feel uncomfortable and panicky whenever he picks up a pen or whenever he's given a book on American history or literature to read. Whatever happens in earlier experiences to make us worry, fear, or hate language in any form to that extent becomes an impairment of our communication capacity. Whatever experiences with language we have had which cause us to deflect our major attention to ourselves instead of to what we are communicating narrows accordingly our efficiency in our interpersonal contacts and our relations. And in damaging our spontaneity in the use of any communication medium, we become just that less capable in a human sense. With such built-in fears of the tools for carrying on interpersonal relations, we have at the same time narrowed the situation in which we can think clearly and coherently and without prejudice. We have reduced our basic ability to appraise, to size up changing situations, to evaluate, to think. A fourth problem of communication in human relations occurs when the communication is primarily one way. When one person does all the transmitting of messages and when the other person does all of the receiving. The effectiveness of one way, one shot messages, whether spoken or written, is extremely varied. The response to a one way, one shot message may range from complete ignoring of the message to rather complete understanding or to complete misunderstanding to deliberate misinterpretation. If the message is to be acted upon appropriately, it is highly necessary that the receiver become involved. That is, that the subject matter of the message must be of importance to him. he must voluntarily open the gates of attention and interest. Effective communicators are coming more and more to follow their messages through, to get the receiver to talk back, to explore and to check upon reception. Mass media communicators, publishers, TV directors and the like, employ public opinion polls and other means of getting their readers and listeners to talk back. They encourage letters to the editor. business executives and military leaders follow their directives through with conferences and group discussions to be sure that the message is received appropriately. Educators, teachers and others use what is called action research methods. That is, whereby their groups evaluate their own reception and use of information and their own formulation and transmitting of messages. Then, there is the new emphasis upon the development of listening and reading abilities. All of these procedures assist in making communication a two-way process. To this extent, does the communicating directly enhance the interpersonal relations or the human relations? Communism and fascism, among other things, essentially, are predominantly one-way communication systems. The messages come from the top down and they're frequently absolute. There's no talking back. There's no questioning under communism or fascism. The unique characteristic of democracy is that it is a two-way communication system. The Constitution, with its checks and balances, ensures that information and questions must come from the bottom as well as from the top of the administrative structure. However, this communication system must be manned by two-way communicators or it cannot be efficient. Depressions may be observed as situations whereby the communicating is primarily one-way. That is primarily from the buyer to the seller. The customer tells the seller what is what. Where there's inflation, there's also predominantly one-way communication from the seller to the buyer. The buyer doesn't usually talk back and if he does, he is not listened to. In a family which is breaking up, there's usually been too much one-way communication with poor reception by both of the principal parties. Furthermore, the lines of communication are frequently fouled with dogmatism and prejudice, with impulsiveness and confusion. Enlightened administrators and industry and leaders of labor are coming to see that many of their difficulties are primarily problems of communication. They are revising their procedures to open the gates to messages from all directions, including the larger public and community to whom they have a responsibility. Human relations and public relations in industry are becoming recognized as important for both survival and profits in the complex and rapidly changing world in which they must adjust. Now, all of this requires a new thinking by educators as to the importance of communication training and the assumptions and methods which underlie this large area of learning. Perhaps, through all of these approaches, something may be done to take up that lag between the physical sciences and the social sciences which seem to account for so many of our problems. Perhaps, through these approaches, something can be done to bring together the diverse splittings of our curricula into some unified organismal integrated view for the student. As we become able to view communication as human behavior which operates in the whole context of personality and interpersonal relations, interpersonal relations, we find new and specific ways for working upon many of the chronic problems of our era. Perhaps, as we better understand the complicated processes whereby communication serves to unify our enterprises and culture, we will find that there is a basis for hope that many of the old embassies and conflicts may be resolved. Thank you, Dr. Murray. Our second chairman will be Dr. Ralph Nichols of the University of Minnesota, who will give us the summary of his workshop on What are the problems of listening in communication? Dr. Nichols. Thank you, Dr. Wicksell. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. By way of an introduction to a report summarizing the results of our workshop activities, it might be well to point out at the very beginning that there is a current awakening in education to the importance of listening comprehension. that is, the importance of learning through listening. Listening to speakers in live situations in which visual and oral cues complement each other in the mode of presentation. A number of secondary schools and something like over a score of colleges are already providing direct instruction designed to improve the listening performances of their students. This number will grow rapidly should research in this area indicate that such instruction returns measurable dividends. Now, we've spent something like five to six hours in workshop activities at this convention and at one in Columbus, Ohio sometime last spring and have arrived at least a number of agreements that I'd like to list at the beginning here with respect to learning through listening. The first thing that we are all agreed upon is that inefficient listening is a very, very serious problem indeed. summarizing such research as has been done on the efficiency of listening as a learning medium, it is fairly accurate to say, putting it somewhat loosely, that allowing for a lapse of time of something like eight weeks after the oral presentation has been made, listening turns out to be just about 25% efficient. A group of students listening to a short lecture 15 or 20 minutes in length will be able to respond correctly upon items in that lecture about half the time, but with a two months lag of time, they lose about half of what they've learned. Listening then can be said to be about 25% efficient. So, as Dr. Murray has said in his talk, inefficient listening is prominent in the home, in industry, and certainly in the classroom where the research that we've done has taken place. A second thing that we've been able to agree upon rather substantially is that listening efficiency can be increased by training. And you folks will be interested, I know, in learning that positive evidence supporting that generalization is beginning is beginning to accumulate now. The University of the Air, scattered throughout the South in a number of states there, testifies that there's a good deal of change of attitude among their officer personnel and the students who come to them for very short courses of very intensive training. Michigan State College reports very exciting evidence that you can step up listening efficiency through training. Investing only 60 minutes of time in direct listening instruction, they've been able to get an improved performance by something between four and seven percent depending on how cautiously they interpret their data. At the University of Minnesota, we are able by direct instruction in listening to improve the performance of our students so that they come up to the average score earned by those who are not given this listening training because of previous adequate ability in listening performance. What I'm saying is that we section into listening emphasis groups at Minnesota those students who are way below par, who are defective in their performance, who are remedial problems, and by the end of one term of training, they are able to listen as well as those who are not given the benefit of that training because they were better listeners to begin with. Other positive evidence has just been published by the whole city school system of Nashville, Tennessee. They have been working very assiduously on this problem of listening inefficiency in Nashville and report that from grades one to twelve, they have tried out direct training and listening comprehension and in every case, the evidence that they produce is positive. Similar evidence has been produced at the University of Oklahoma at our sectional meeting devoted to listening comprehension tomorrow morning. That's going to be reported in a good deal of detail. So too will some evidence from the University of Mississippi and other places. I do not wish to go into greater detail because it would be robbing our program tomorrow morning if I were to do so. But it is safe to say, I think, as a generalization, at least our group felt that it was safe to say, that listening efficiency can be definitely improved through training. And because we've gone into this thing very timidly and cautiously, the positive results, the magnitude of the positive results that we're getting is very exciting material indeed. The third generalization that we could agree upon was that reading and listening seem to be of approximately equal efficiency as media in learning. A close review of over a dozen master's and PhD studies comparing the efficiency of these two assimilative processes suggests this conclusion. Roughly, one-third of those reported suggest a slight advantage to reading, one-third a slight advantage to listening, and one-third found insignificant differences. It should be noted that listening in most of these studies referred to assimilating oral cues only as obtained from recordings or radio broadcasts. For purposes of distinction, this type of performance this morning will henceforth be referred to as auditory comprehension to distinguish it from listening comprehension in which both oral and visual cues are present. A fourth generalization to which we wish to subscribe is that reading and listening are very closely related skills. Although coefficients of correlation reported vary all the way from a positive .27 to a positive .82, the figure most frequently reported approximates a positive .70. Obviously, then, the four or five distinct differences between the two processes which have been noted by several writers are more than counterbalanced by several similar or identical skills involved in both reading and listening. A fifth generalization, variations in the rate of assimilation do not significantly alter the comparative efficiency of the two processes. A very carefully controlled study completed in 1940 at Columbia University by Dr. Harry Goldstein, later supported by a number of perhaps less pretentious studies, constitutes the basis for this generalization. And that's a very exciting thing, too. If any of you care to look into Dr. Goldstein's published report, it's one of the reports in education emanating from the College of Education at Columbia University, because he actually, through a period of time, trained a radio man to speed up his speech to a point where he was talking 325 words per minute. It took several months to get the fellow able to do that, and I think even then they juggled the turntable a bit in order to get him to go that fast consistently and stay at that pace. Here then, before a large test population, Goldstein was able to determine how efficiently people listen at rates of speed that they've never listened to before. And in spite of the fact that they were in a new situation for them, the people were able to listen as efficiently as they were able to read. At least there was no statistically significant difference reported in those two performances. That's rather an exciting thing, it seems to me. We have no reason to believe that it would not be possible for us to listen to speech at the rate of 500 words per minute if we could get speakers who could talk articulately at that rate. Actually, most classroom lecturers talk at only 100 words per minute, and the average rate of speech speed in America is about 125 words per minute. Maybe we're losing out on an awful lot of good and important things because of a slow rate of speech. The sixth generalization to which we can all subscribe is that almost all students, and perhaps laymen as well, are afflicted with a number of very bad listening habits. Recent research by Blewett, Brown, Dow, Irvin, Johnson, Nichols, and others reveals that the identity of several listening habits, bad ones, can be described, and to some degree this research depicts the universality of bad listening habits. Seriously ineffective listeners appear to be guilty of most, if not all, of these bad listening habits. Now, I wish we had time, and we don't have it, to identify these by enumeration and discuss them. If you're interested in the bad listening habits that all of us have to some degree and some of us have to great degree, you will find those things in published research. A seventh generalization that we feel is very significant is that effective listeners possess and practice certain very specific skills. Recent research by the same men mentioned and others in the foregoing item has identified several of these good listening skills. It is important to note that in each case it has been found the judgment of the researcher that most of these skills appear readily amenable to training and improvement. Well, having enumerated for you the things upon which we've agreed, the generalizations upon which we want to build a platform here of improving listening comprehension throughout the nation, it is now time surely to suggest the problems that we confront in our efforts to improve the listening habits of our people, our students, and all of us. Our great problem, of course, is simply that of ignorance, inadequate information. It is appalling to start to list or describe the things that we don't know about listening, yet it's understandable enough when you begin to tabulate the research that has been done in listening comprehension and compare it with the research that's been done in reading comprehension, the parallel assimilated skill. Something more than 2,600 scientific published researches in reading comprehension have already been completed and been made available to all educators and laymen. About a dozen researches in listening comprehension have been completed and published. So you can understand how little we know about listening comprehension and it's a terrific problem that we face at the beginning that we don't have enough research data in this area. What research in listening comprehension now appears most needed? However, if the instruction provided by communications courses in our schools is to be most successfully expedited, I have here this morning a list of studies falling rather naturally into four categories, it seems to me, which seem to us in our workshops to encompass the most urgent questions to which answers are needed. Now, if there are any people in this group this morning who are trying to find graduate research problems to develop and complete, you particularly, I hope, will be interested in these questions that I'm going to raise. Many of them would constitute very nice doctoral problems and some of them perhaps on a small scale master's degree problem that would make a very nice study for you. Some of them ought to be very discreet and neat in the procedural outlines for them. Number one problem is one in measurement. We need to evaluate in terms of validity, reliability, and ease of administration the tests of listening ability presently in use. Number two, to devise more effective means of measuring objectively the skills of reading, writing, and speaking, and then to determine more exactly the relationship existing between listening and these other three communicative processes. Then I have here seven problems in pedagogy that certainly need immediate attention. we need to determine the relationship between listening ability and scholastic success at the grade school, high school, and college levels. You would think that a person's ability to listen would be a very strong determinant of the grade, the letter grade, that he might earn in a course. Actually, the correlation between listening performance and the grades earned that we have available, the information on it, is very low. And that's been very discouraging until we learned that the correlation between the grade earned in a course and the ability of the student to read was equally low. To be specific about it, the correlation was about .27 at the high school level. The only research we have, I think, was at the high school level. It makes one wonder what we do grade our students on if it isn't upon their ability to learn through reading and listening. They're the two ways that students do learn. Perhaps we're grading personality or social position or something else. If so, we ought to discover that. A second problem, to verify previous studies reporting the influence of classroom training upon listening comprehension. Three, to compare the efficacy of four presently used methods designed to improve listening comprehension. You will be interested in this. There are at least four ways in which listening instruction is now taking place. Direct classroom instruction, coordinated instruction in listening and speech making, voluntary listening laboratory training, and training combining all three of these preceding approaches. Which one is best? We ought to have some comparative studies to find out. Number four, to discover the most effective techniques for eliminating those habits which are already generally acknowledged to impair listening comprehension. Five, to define more clearly and more fully those habits which impair learning accomplished through listening to informative speech in classroom situations. To construct and verify the efficacy of classroom exercises designed to improve listening comprehension. And finally, to determine at what grade level training in listening can be most efficiently provided. Then I've listed five problems here in identification and description. One, to discover in what degree auditory comprehension can be validly used to measure listening comprehension. Two, to determine what proportion of the time devoted by instructors to classroom lecturing is actually used by students for purposeful listening. What proportion of the lecture hour is devoted by the listener to hearing hearing the speaker and what proportion is spent on mental tangents. There ought to be a way of discovering an answer to that question. Number three, to discover the varying nature of listener interest in college lectures. If the student's interest, is the student's interest inherent in the subject, the listener, the speaker, the speaker's mode of presentation or in some perceivable combination of these factors. One thing upon which all psychologists agree is that interest is a terrifically important factor in listening comprehension. Well, interest in what? Or in what combination of things? And how can it be developed? Number four, to discover the relative weights of visual and oral cues in speech making. Number five, to verify previous research reporting that males appear to be somewhat superior to females in listening ability and to identify as many as possible of the factors accounting for this superiority. If we could find out why males listen more effectively than females, maybe we'd learn something about the process. Then I have here a list of six causal factors that would constitute good bases for research. Number one, to discover the age levels at which known bad listening habits are acquired and to determine as many as possible of the factors responsible for their acquirement. Two, to discover the effect of the listener's attitudes, convictions, and prejudices upon his listening efficiency. Three, to determine the effect upon listening comprehension when expository material is presented in an extremely emotional fashion. Four, to study closely the nature of classroom concentration during informative speech in an effort to identify the factors differentiating good and bad listeners. Five, to discover the relationship between size of vocabulary and listening efficiency. Six, to study the relationship between listening efficiency and ability of the listener to structuralize the speech being delivered. Well, that's a list of the problems which seem to us need immediate attention and we're certainly trying to stimulate people to attack those problems. What are we doing as a committee during the next 12 months to attempt to reach answers to those questions anyhow? I have a statement here of four projects that the National Committee on Listening Comprehension is going to undertake. I think you'll be interested in these and certainly we need your cooperation in them. Number one, we need to make a graduated study of the listening habits of human beings all the way from the nursery school level up through the college years and into adult life. We need to analyze and report these studies in order to provide a sound basis for listening instruction during the years in school. Secondly, we propose to send a letter to key speech and English department chairmen and to deans of colleges of education in the nation reporting our number one project and expressing our hope that they will urge some of their graduate students to consider this area when defining their research problems. Third, we propose to assemble a list of the obstacles, problems, and difficulties encountered by teachers or others interested in or striving to accomplish training and listening comprehension. And fourth, we hope to secure an outlet for the publication of such studies as we are able to assemble or accomplish. These are things that we seriously need. It's our hope as a committee that there are individuals in this audience this morning who have a curiosity, an appetite for research, an appreciation of the significance of the communicative processes in our everyday living. 70% of our waking day on the average is spent in one or more of these communicative processes. If 70% of our waking lives is devoted to communication, surely we ought to be interested in doing research in these four communicative skill areas. And the one which has been most neglected and yet which quantitatively we use the most is listening comprehension. Thank you, Dr. Nichols. Professor Charles Redding of the University of Southern California will give us a summary of the workshop on what are the problems of communication in education. Professor Redding. Thank you, Professor Wixel. The first problem of our workshop was to define our problem. We sort of had a suspicion that the question as you've just heard it read, what are the problems of communication in education, was a little bit broad for about four hours of discussion. We thought, well, now, for instance, there are the problems of how to communicate the need for a higher salary to the Board of Trustees or there are the problems of how to communicate to the proper football player that he should attend a certain school and so on and so forth. We suspected that these were outside our domain. Well, after a large amount of communication by mail before our meeting and during our meeting later on, of course, we determined that for the sake of convenience, if nothing else, we would narrow our discussions down to just one aspect of the total process of communication in colleges, namely, the so-called communication courses. Ordinarily, a single course called basic communication but not necessarily always called that. Then, in tackling this discussion, it was our purpose to exchange information, to exchange reactions, to try to pool, well, we said our ignorance, yes, but to pool our experiences, our observations from around 10 or 11 college campuses. The people in this workshop are not, I should say here, a member of an official committee. We're not empowered to do anything, but we did represent some, not of course all, some of the best-known programs and communication courses throughout the United States, including one in the Air Forces. So then, we tried to narrow the whole thing down even further. We said, now, even the whole subject of communication courses is a large one. What should be our chief focus of attention within that area? And we determined to say, we're going to try to organize our remarks around about three main headings. But even before we could do that, we said, why are we here? Why do we have communication courses? There are several hundred of them, possibly over a thousand now. We don't know the exact figures. And most of these have arisen since about 1940, 1941, 1942. And vast numbers of them, of course, have sprung up since 1946. We all know that very largely the stimulus for these communication programs came from the needs during the last war for certain kinds of curricula which were set up to satisfy the needs of the armed forces. B-12 programs for the Navy, for instance. We're not certain that, of course, all of these programs were thought out from the standpoint of their theoretical premises. Sometimes they were undoubtedly a matter of expediency. But anyway, regardless of the genesis, many of these programs were established and as a result of the experience they have been expanding very, very rapidly. Well then, we felt there must have been or there must still be some kind of feeling on the part of many administrators and the part of many educators and the part of many students, if you will, somewhere, that something must be wrong, something must be lacking in what we can call the old type of courses, the more or less conventional, the traditional courses in English composition, so-called, in fundamentals of speech or public speaking, so-called. And while it was not our purpose to go over all the various things which might be wrong with these courses, we constantly kept in mind the fact that something must be wrong with those otherwise hundreds of other courses which purport to change the old status quo would not be in existence today. It would not be growing so fast as they are. Well then, what were these three main points about which we attempted to focus our discussion? First, we said, for our purposes here, for the purposes of a communication course, what do we mean by communication? That sounds almost too obvious, doesn't it? Secondly, if we had complete freedom to do what we would, what should we like to teach? What are our goals? What do we want to accomplish? Whether we can accomplish these, of course, is something else again. And thirdly, naturally, roughly, how shall we try to accomplish these goals? Let me try to summarize for you as best I can the conclusions, perhaps I shouldn't even use the word conclusions, but anyway, the utterances of this ten-man workshop. I should be frank in saying that we did never come to a complete 100% consensus on any main issue. At least, I don't believe that we did. But we did come, I believe, to a pretty substantial consensus on most of the issues. What do we mean by communication so far as courses in communication are concerned? Now, we know that an actor is communicating. If he isn't, he's not acting, I guess. We know that speakers on television shows, variety shows, are communicating. We know that dancers, aesthetic and otherwise, are communicating. We know that a child in finger painting is communicating, or at least he may be. We even know that so-called insane people are communicating in various ways. So that while recognizing all the various forms that communication may take, we felt that we should do at least two things. First, try to isolate the basic underlying and essential theme of communication. and secondly, to delimit the particular forms of communication with which we're concerned. Now, that basic underlying theme, of course, means trying to do what the philosophers have been trying to do all through history, define such things as truth. And as the semanticists tell us, when we have defined something, perhaps that indicates it no longer exists in the world of reality. So we did not try to come out with a formal technical academic definition of something which would no longer exist. We agreed, however, informally, that by the process of communication we mean. That process whereby, through symbolic means primarily but not exclusively of language, so far as we're concerned for these courses, through symbolic means primarily but not exclusively through language, one person or group of persons is able to get another person or group of persons to respond by means of stimulation with ideas approximately the same as those which the communicators had in mind. Person A has an idea, if we can use that word idea in quotation marks, we hope he does. He emits certain stimuli, visual and auditory, which represent symbols to him, symbols which stand for, as we say, things in reality or what he thinks are things in reality. Person B sees or hears these symbols and he, therefore, has some sort of concept in his mind which supposedly represents what the speaker or writer is talking about. Now, as I just mentioned a moment ago, this process can take many, many forms, we all know that. But so far as the courses are concerned, with which of those forms should we be chiefly concerned? We felt that without cutting off all contact with dance and music and mathematics and so on and psychology and psychiatry and anthropology, we should, so far as a basic communication course is concerned, be devoted to speaking, writing, listening, and reading, naturally, as you might suspect. I'm sure that comes as a great surprise. We recognize that in these processes the speaker may use elements from other processes. He may use graphics, of course, he uses what we call visual aids, he uses cinema and so on and so forth, but primarily he's using language symbols. Now, what are the goals? Well, of course, the goals are fairly obvious, and yet, as is so frequently true with the obvious, we don't know it until we see it, and then when we see it, we decide it wasn't there after all. We decided that our goals take probably, again, about two forms. I hate to keep subdividing things here into two and three and four, but I can't quite overcome my old debate training, I guess. Most of our goals, we felt, could fall in one of two headings, skills and attitudes. Again, I'm sure that's a great surprise to you. You've heard all that jargon before. Skills of speaking, whatever those might be, and of course we can list them here for hours. Skills of listening, such as we heard Dr. Nichols speaking of a few moments ago in great detail. Skills of reading, which have been referred to. Skills of writing, naturally. Are we going, we said, to try to achieve just a minimum essential of skill? Are we going to be concerned chiefly with what we might call clinical objectives, just to bring everyone up to a minimum and then stop? Or are we also going to be concerned in any such courses as these, with the matter of trying to get an individual person to achieve the utmost of his possibilities? Well, of course, both. Both. We're concerned, not just with merely minimum competence of skill, but also with what we might call the maximum effectiveness of which any given student is capable, because we always kept emphasizing in our discussions based upon our observations and readings and various programs that the successful programs in communication cannot be lecture courses and reading courses and so on. They must be courses which are closely articulated to the needs of the students on an individual basis. Now, how about attitudes? We know, of course, in these troubles times that when we start to teach attitudes, teach attitudes, that's a dangerous phrase, isn't it? We know that we're subject to charges of propagandizing, indoctrination, and so on. Are we going to teach attitudes towards democracy? If so, do we mean the kind of democracy which Mr. Vyshynski speaks of in the United Nations, or what kind of democracy? Just for instance. Well, basically, we mean that we try to get in the students a more favorable attitude towards the process of communication so that, as Dr. Murray has said, he does not react with horror when he is faced with a speaking situation or a reading situation or a listening situation and so on. We're also concerned with what we may frankly call attitudes of social responsibility. Now, social responsibility probably breaks down into the common beliefs and assumptions of our culture. We're concerned naturally, not, of course, with trying to dictate what the speaker or the writer says or thinks, but that he shall be sincere in saying it and thinking it, that he shall have thought it out, that what he says shall represent to the best of his ability. Reality as reality can be discovered, psychological and physical reality. We are concerned that he shall be, as we call it, honest. Now, our concepts of honesty are going to vary, but at least it's a criterion which we can use. I think we'll all agree that we have a superfluity of dishonest and deceptive communicators in the world today. Now, our third question, of course, is the one which possibly I should have spent all the time talking about. He said that the number of ideas which came out here was so vast it's almost impossible to boil it down to a few minutes. But again, I believe that these two or three directions are the chief ones upon which we found the greatest consensus. And I think it's safe to say that this probably does represent a fairly good summary of the line of thinking of people out on the firing lines in the courses around the country today. Not just our own ideas, but ones which we have heard and read from others. In trying to determine what sort of courses to set up, if any, we felt that the chief issue to be considered was what are the similarities and what are the differences and how important are those similarities and differences among these four so-called standard aspects of the communication process. And I think we felt that unless there are more important similarities both in the learning and receptive processes and in the teaching processes, then there are differences. Why naturally it would not be justified to set up combined courses, but to continue with separate courses in these skills. We were never able to agree upon a list, a nice little neat list of all the similarities and all the differences, but I think the direction of our thinking indicated that probably we felt that the most important similarity was, of course, the obvious one, that all of these four processes are concerned with what we call symbolization and primarily language symbolization. But however, we pointed out that pending further research, much of which is needed, there may be extensive differences in the psychological aspects of learning these skills, even though there may not be significant differences in the reception of material from reading and from listening as Mr. Nichols has been telling us. I say there may be, we don't know, because the research on this is not very extensive. Research, that is, on specific pedagogical problems, not just on reading as reading or speaking as speaking, but pedagogical problems of teaching and learning reading and speaking. we felt whatever differences may exist probably exist more between the active processes of speaking, I say so-called active processes, of speaking and writing than between, say, speaking and listening or between reading and listening and so on. Very briefly then, we would make three main conclusions here, recommendations. recommendations. We commend all the efforts to establish courses in basic communications, courses which remind our students that our culture is in a sea of communication, that war is a breakdown in communication. We need more instruction in communication, which emphasizes communication, not exhibitionism, not pedantry, and so on. So we approve of the whole idea of these courses, but in so doing, we suggest that there are three main problems which must be settled before we go ahead and just keep on expanding courses indefinitely without knowing why we're doing it or where we're going. The most important problem we've felt, and this seems to be confirmed from all campuses we could locate, is that of securing adequate staff. We find teachers who have had all their training in so-called English, and they soon make a course in so-called basic communication, one in commas and dangling participles, or maybe John Donne. Or we find teachers who have had all their training in so-called speech, and they make the course possibly one in debate, or even declamation, or heaven's elocution. We find people then who have great difficulty in integrating these supposedly integrated processes within themselves from the standpoint of teaching. We have problems of professional advancement, for instance. We have problems of knowing how to assure a teacher who undertakes the instruction of such a course, but he is going to have an equitable right, along with his colleagues, at advancements and promotions and salaries and such things as that. So then we felt, after much discussion, that the staff problem is the chief problem today which stands in the way of really successful communication courses, assuming that they're not entirely successful yet. Secondly, we felt that just about as important, perhaps in the long run more important, is the problem to evaluate what's going on. Now, surprisingly enough, here we have hundreds of communication courses, but almost no really definitive scientific evaluation of the outcomes of those courses compared to other courses. Now, there is some evaluation of the outcomes on the part of the students. There are, of course, many testing programs, so we found out the students have learned something about communication. We found out the students, after they take these courses, are able to communicate something. Yes, we found that out. But, of course, that is not the crucial thing. The crucial thing is, are they learning better than they would be or have been under the old setup or conventional setup. And so far as these ten people in the workshop could tell, there is not a single definitive piece of research on that available at the present time. And therefore, very truly, when we're talking about what to do about communication courses, we're pooling our ignorance. Of course, now, we know that the pragmatic, everyday observations of hundreds of teachers are far from worthless. We know that this great mass of observation must be worth something. And that great mass of observation must be indicating that certain successful outcomes are eventuating. But we also remember that there are a few, just very, very few now, definitive studies, scientific studies, of the teaching and learning processes of speaking versus writing, not of reading and listening now, but of speaking versus writing. And these are somewhat contradictory, somewhat tentative, but the general direction of them, the studies of Britton, McCrary, Fuller, for instance, seems to be that there is not a very high correlation between the effectiveness of a given person to communicate a message by writing and by speaking. The correlations in a classroom situation, for instance, undertaken by McCrary, are in the neighborhood of around 25, plus 25, with a probable error of around 8, which means almost no correlation for practical purposes. Now, if psychologically, educationally, speaking and writing are one, these correlations should not exist. And lastly, we consider the question, how should we administer these departments? It's commonly said that teachers are not politicians, but of course, all of us teachers know that's not true. Teachers are probably the biggest politicians of all. We know there are empire builders, there are politicians on campuses, there are departments that say, no, you can't have this course, no, you can't have this instructor. And we recognize, without going into it here in detail, that that is a very, very great problem, perhaps one of the most immediate ones which we face. Well, it has been said many times that totalitarianism operates by means of communication. Democracy operates by means of communication, too, two different kinds. And the whole crisis of the world today, we feel, may be very largely one of communication. And not that a basic college course in communication is going to solve the world's problems, not at all. But as usual, someone always says, well, the colleges are falling down on the whole thing. What shall the colleges do? Very briefly, just hitting the highlights, these are some of the things which we felt the colleges might do. Thank you, Mr. Whitsall. Thank you, Professor Redding. The summary of the workshop on what are the problems of communication in industry will be given by Major Charles Estes, Special Assistance, United States Mediation and Conciliation Service, Washington, D.C. Major Estes. Thank you, Dr. Whitsall. And ladies and gentlemen, may I give you a preview or a view of the participants on our panel. Fred Smith, Vice President of William Powell Valve Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. Stuart Chase, author and lecturer at Georgetown, Connecticut. John Q. Jennings, Industrial Relations of Single Manufacturing Company, New York City. Frank Lima, Bell Telephone Laboratories, New York. Francis Bradshaw, President of Richardson, Bedloe and Henry, New York. Robert Moore, an executive of Rogers and Slade, New York. Richard Elder Merle, Associate Editor of Chemical Engineering. Merle E. Kilby, Supervisor of Training of the Calco Division of American Sinamide. Henry Roberts, Training Director of the National Defense Agencies, Training and Communication. And Liston Tatum, International Business Machine Company, New York. I give you that panel to justify our approach being a little different, probably, from what you expect. The problems of communication and industry were so great that we turned about and decided to give you suggestions and then references and ask you to look into them. Lincoln stated our goals for us plainly enough, but left it to us to figure out how to attain them. And were he living today in this dangerous atomic world, I think he might warn us that unless we learn how to get along with each other, as individuals, not only our government, but we, the people, may perish from this earth. Certainly, there is no novelty in the statement that we live in a period of stress. Yes, internationally, what might have been a cooperative world is torn asunder by irreconcilable philosophies of economics, politics, justice, progress, and even of human life. Within our nation, differences that sometimes seem just as pervasive cause suspicion, resentment, and open conflict between employees and employers. These differences show that we must improve the working-living relationship between wage earners, management, and owners. Unless this is done, our economic system will lurch from crisis to crisis and will not continue to maintain an even increasing standard of living for our people. Well, Wednesday noon, we heard the speaker at the luncheon of the society tell us of his company, what his company is doing in speech training for its people. Those of you who have read the fortune series on communication read that one of our major automobile companies encouraging 2,000 of its management and supervisory people to express themselves better by taking a non-college speech course, a course, incidentally, which gives equal emphasis to human relations byproducts of speech training. The National Association of Manufacturers, the American Management Association, the American Institute of Banking, and the National Association of Foremen all publish material on speech training. All of these people need the help of all of you, not just some of you, as is now true. You are supposed to be the experts in this field. You should be the leaders of this crusade for improved communication. And the stimulating thing about it is that in addition to your being so sadly needed, it challenges the full gamut of your skills, all the way from the simple, understandable communication, which is very difficult to achieve, to the more advanced aspects, including such things as general somatics. And now that much as we regret it, we may have a war to win. We shall need a citizenry, a labor management, and general public that can democratically arrive at an agreement as to what should be done and then do it together. This requires more effective communication on the part of everybody than we have ever had before. For your own sake and for the sake of your country, don't miss the opportunity you have to fill this need. The references I gave at the beginning, a brief play, Human Relations in Modern Business, which is available for you here. Areas of Agreement by Stuart Chase will be published in April. The Blueprinting of Your Career by Robert Moore. And Live a New Life by David Guy Powers. And finally, The Human Equations by Richard DeMurl in the August issue of Chemical Engineering. Thank you. Thank you, Major Epstein. Now that we've had these four summaries by these chairmen, we would welcome questions or comments from the members of this audience. Do we have any questions or comments? Mr. Chairman? Yes? I would like to ask various members of the panel to identify, if they can, some of the basic obstacles, some of the basic difficulties in communication between groups from different culture backgrounds, groups with different value systems. the difficulties of communication. What are the specific obstacles in communication between peoples of various nations in the United Nations or between peoples from various socioeconomic levels that Major Estes was worrying about in our labor management relations? Are you addressing this to any particular member of this group? Well, I could point at Dr. Murray, perhaps. All right, Dr. Murray. Each culture has a different... And each language has its different set of assumptions, silent premises, which are a part of and carried on into the culture by the language. A set of assumptions of what is important. The Mexicans have things that are far different on what they think is important than what we do. I could give illustrations on that. Now, when we begin to communicate, we have a different set of noises that we use. We have the same time inside of us, different pictures of what is important. And we don't understand the barriers between us in those silent respects. We don't see them. The result is we get tangled up. And pretty soon, we're under strange intention, such as the illustration. That's the word democracy. Now, what the Russians mean about it is very different than what we mean about it. The result is we're soon fighting about it, but it causes the unconscious assumptions being different. Thank you, Dr. Murray. By the way, would you give your names when you ask these questions? Are there other questions? I'm Dorothy Brown, Tomlinson of New York. Tomlinson? And all of the figures have covered the field most effectively. I was wondering if our basic desire in life, if tending toward introvertism, to develop toward self-sufficiency... I'm sorry to interrupt you, but who would you like to have answer your question here? Well, I thought Dr. Murray again, and Major Edith. I would have to make your effort. Should I cover two fields in one? If that is so, and if labor misunderstands management's words, as the research of NAM showed, as a result of young men who died at Yulajima and willed money to NAM, and they did some research, they found labor misunderstood words. Well, we can change words. Can we not? But if we are attempting to educate people in speech and to understand each other, perhaps we must also have an understanding of what these motivations in people are. Dr. Murray, I think you covered it very nicely, but how can we teach understanding of people and understanding of human relations in speech, unless we also cover the entire field of psychology, psychiatry, and general understanding? Major Estes, would you answer that? I am not an academician, but I would say, through speech training, the things that the lady wished to secure, you get them as byproducts. The byproducts are what we are looking for, and most of us look at them as in-products. The one vehicle that will give you the gamut of what you're driving it is public speaking. Any others? Your name? Fisker from Central Michigan. Fisker. Mr. Fisker. I'd like to ask Major Estes. You mentioned about the need for better communication between labor and the owners of business during preparation for war. Would you say that the preparation for war and the tensions are tending to foster or curtail that type of better democratic communication? In other words, the period we're now entering, does that tend to foster or curtail better democratic communication? The tension will not increase as a result of the effort in war. The tension will increase as a result of the problems that arise out of the controls that are anticipated in our whole economic fear, namely prices and wages. You would say that was a serious problem coming up in the case. Yes, very definitely. Could I say this off the record quickly? Mr. Layden of Stevens College, do you have a question? We'll move on quickly. I just asked Major Estes. In the speech and human relations work in industry, I assume that you have a ready-made motivation for the people to participate. Now with a group of students, would it be your opinion that we should make use of the things that concern them, getting the same byproducts, working in social issues, as they are currently interested in them? By all means, sir. Yes. That their other experience later will make use of what they... Right. Any other questions, preferably to these men at my right? Dr. Rettin. Dr. Rettin here. Ms. Paulson from University of Minnesota. I'd like to ask about the basic college course in communication. I'm wondering if it is assumed that through teaching the basic skills of reading, writing, speaking, and listening, the human relations, which all the members of the panel have considered so important, will be improved simply through teaching the basic skills or swithers, given course, ought to explore areas in psychology or social adjustment. What you're really asking, I think, is in a sense a restatement of the old, old problem of what do we mean by the field of speech or the classicists called it rhetoric. And as some people have said recently, perhaps communication, as we're using the term now, is really about what Aristotle meant by rhetoric, the total art of communication. If that is true, I think that it is, we also mean what he meant when he said time and time again in different ways that the main subject matter of communication is understanding the other fellow, the understanding of your audience, audience analysis, which is human relations again, so that a large part of the so-called content of communication does actually consist of audience analysis and human relations. I didn't say that in my talks, I realized, but that was assumed. Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. I'm from Michigan State. I'd like to ask Dr. Nichols how it would be possible to distinguish the symbolism, make these understandings, if the people don't even listen. Mr. Nichols. Well, I don't know one answer to that, Mr. Hill. If we don't understand, I don't see how we're going to distinguish between these symbols. Is there an answer from some other members of this panel with that question? One thing I think fundamentally at fault, we're not teaching human relations, we'll not get the results you want, if we don't teach the functions of communication. We're not teaching the functions of communication, and we're not teaching communication, we're teaching little segments of it. Until we teach communication in this total background and setting of personality and sociology, we're going to be stymied on this problem and our teaching will not assume its potentialities. Thank you, Dr. Murray. Any other questions? I wanted to ask, I'm Mr. Sweet of Brunswick, Maine. I wanted to ask Major Estes what people in the field of speech could do, who they would approach to find out about the program training within industry as so that they might be a possible use in that program. I'll try to answer that quickly and then suggest a route. Most teachers of speech would approach the personnel or labor relations man by saying, here we have a basket full of things we would like you to use. That's the direct approach and will close the door of his mind. You ask the industrial relations man and personnel man for some help in your problems. He immediately asks what your problems are. He gets interested and then he'll come and ask you to come and help him with his. The door is wide open and the field is yours. Does that... Yes. Any other questions or comments? I have a question I might direct to Professor Redding. Your name? Arthur Huff from Northwestern University. Mr. Huff? He mentioned these communications courses and I'd like to know just what he would teach or would advise to be taught in communication courses we can teach general semantics or speech or rhetoric, vocabulary, grammar, or persuasion even and propaganda. Just what would it consist of mainly? I won't answer that for myself personally. I think I should represent the workshop. The workshop never did come to a conclusion on that matter. One of the large issues which we had explored before the meeting and which we had agreed we could not take up in detail was what is going to be the content, the actual content itself of the course in communication. We had so many of these other matters to take up that we simply did not have the time to get to it. Perhaps the fairest answer is to say that there are various courses throughout the country that use various of those items which you mentioned as the core around which the rest of the course is built. It's my impression that most courses have at least some elements of all of those things in it. And of course that's one of the large pedagogical questions. How much can you do in one course? Thank you, Professor Redding. Now finally, I have asked Professor Paul Bagwell of Michigan State College and President of the National Society for the Study of Communication to make a few observations on today's summaries. Professor Bagwell. Dr. Wixell, Chairman of the workshops, ladies and gentlemen. On occasion like this, I'm somewhat reminded of the statement made by the great emancipator, President Lincoln, who, by the way, had mastered the process of communication even though he had no formal education to speak of. But in his speech, which is titled The House Divided Against Itself, he made the statement, If we know whither we tendeth and where we are, we will best know what to do and how to do it. Now actually, I think the workshops held in connection with the first annual meeting of the National Society for the Study of Communication have been primarily concerned with that problem. We want to know where we are in this highly communicative world in which we live, where we are going, and how best we are to get there. And we want to do that in as scientific a way as possible. I think I should say just a few words about the National Society for the Study of Communication. It was organized for the first time last December at the Speech Association meeting in Chicago. We started out with a total of nine members at that time. We have approximately 109 members exactly one year later. We have members in the society who are primarily interested in such academic fields as sociology, but who have a specialized interest in sociology, which is in the field of communication. We have theoretical mathematicians who are interested in communication as members of this society. We have linguists we have social scientists. For example, one of the members of this audience asked the question as to how we would approach the study of a given word or human reactions to a given word in terms of the different cultures. You might be interested to know that the UNESCO Council of the United States made available to a group of social scientists the sum of about $22,000 for the purpose of studying the word democracy in terms of the various cultural contexts in which that word is used. Now, that study has been completed and a copy of it can be attained by anyone writing to the United States Commission on UNESCO. But it's interesting to note that the Russians use the term democracy as frequently or more frequently than we do in this country. What does the word democracy mean to a Russian in terms of his frame of reference? What does it mean to a Hindu in terms of his frame of reference? Well, now, it's our feeling that in a society of this nature, when we can get people together, such as those representing speech, those representing language, those representing general semantics, those representing mathematics, sociology, anthropology, and so on, all who have one interest in common, and that is the study of communication, that we can do studies of the nature that was done by this group of social scientists, but we can work as a team. In other words, Dr. Norbert Wiener, inventor of the human, or the mechanical brain, known as the electrical, numerical, integrator, and calculator, has turned out two books that are of interest to all people, I think, who are interested in the field of communication. One of them is titled Cybernetics, or the subtitle is of control of communication among animals and machines. Dr. Wiener is interested in the ability of man to communicate with machines and machines to communicate back to man. You want to read a very interesting article upon the necessity of that as far as future survival is concerned of the human species. I would suggest that you read Brigadier General David Sarnoff's article that appeared in the April issue of Liberty Magazine, 1950. General Sarnoff points out in that article that now that we have developed machines that will travel faster than the speed of sound, that in view of the fact that we have guided missiles that will go in the neighborhood of 2,000 miles an hour, that the sort of speech as we know it today is too slow for purposes of living in that kind of a supersonic world. we started out in terms of our language by learning letters and learning to string those letters together and then later learning words and learn to string those words together in sentences. Today when a plane is traveling through the air at something like 856 miles an hour by the time the individual being sees it, reacts to it, interprets the data, attempts to put it into words and so on, that object can be a hundred or more miles away before the individual reacts to it. So we are in the process of developing new methods of communication. I wanted to refer to the second book that was written by Dr. Wiener titled The Human Use of Human Beings and I think that is of significance to people who are interested in this total field of communication but it is our belief that if we could get teams of people working upon these problems in communication and on that team, upon a given team for example we might have a man like Dr. Wiener, a man like Major Estes here who is in the practical field dealing with individuals who have communicative problems and management sits on one side of him and labor on the other and they can really communicate in a certain kind of a frame of reference as the Major has told you on numerous occasions in the past. We want to bring the people from federal mediation and conciliation into the picture get them to meet with teachers of speech and English and these sociologists and others that are interested in this problem and as a team work upon these given problems and then possibly we will not encounter the sort of thing that you run into when you pick up any profound book on some of the complex problems of today that state that even though we have made tremendous technological progress in the field of communication as far as a meeting of minds are concerned we are probably farther apart than before we learn to communicate with the speed of light which we are able to do with new developments in the field of electronics many thoughtful writers and speakers are concerned with that problem today that even though we have developed all of these mass media for the purpose of disseminating ideas and so on we grow farther apart in terms of our agreement and our understanding of these basic issues students it's my personal conviction that sincere scholars sincere men and women who are primarily interested in that problem or if they are interested in communication from the standpoint of teaching a course of communication if they are primarily interested in students rather than subject matter and if they're willing to allow that interest in students to become the chief concern rather than their interest in a particular vested area subject matter area something like that to blind them to possibilities that might be brought about then I think some real good can be accomplished I want to pay tribute to Major Charles Estes who is with us here today he read to you the names of the outstanding men from industry who appeared on the workshop panel that had to do with communication in industry at times there were more people on the panel than there were out in the audience and we had some of the most high powered men in the country or men with ideas and we appreciate the tremendous amount of work that he has gone to in organizing that particular panel and more than anything else I appreciate the fact that for years Major Estes has been trying to get teachers of speech out of their ivory towers down into the practical laboratories where communication is going on to get them to study it and in turn help them solve their particular problems well now the National Society for the Study of Communication is one year old as of this time I am convinced in terms of the reception that we have received from men like Paul Lazarsfeld who is now a member and a sociologist men like Dr. Weiner Mr. Sarnoff Lyman Bryson and others that this society is going to go ahead it's going to attack these problems of communication in a cooperative kind of a way and our research is going to be objective and of a scientific nature it's a pleasure to have this opportunity to appear on the program and thank you Dr. Wixell for giving me this opportunity thank you President Bagwell in conclusion I want to express my appreciation to this audience and to station WNYC and the members of this panel Dr. Murray Dr. Nichols Professor Redding Professor Bagwell and Major Estes for their contributions today thank you