Mayor Impelletary, Mayor- Commissioner Reid, Chief Judge Murtaugh, Mr. Dammond, ladies and gentlemen, I want to welcome you to City Hall and thank you for coming. I have invited you here to consider a problem of the utmost importance. In these critical times, when we are confronted with a grave national emergency, we must give serious thought to the conservation of our manpower and our economic resources. Traffic accidents have taken a heavy toll in life and property during the last year. Preliminary estimates indicate that 35,000 persons were killed and 1,225,000 injured in traffic accidents throughout the country during the year 1950, with property damage and economic loss in excess of the of $3 billion. These are staggering totals. Throughout the nation, traffic deaths and injuries rose so rapidly in 1950 that they overshadowed the gains made in traffic reduction, that is in traffic accident reduction, in 1947, 1948, and 1949. The tragedy is that many of those who died or suffered crippling injuries might have rendered useful service to their country. Of the 35,000 killed in traffic accidents last year, about 15,000 were between the ages of 18 and 45. Of the 1,225,000 who were injured, 100,000 were permanently disabled. This is a very heavy blow to our democracy. The New York City traffic accident record, based on population and operating mileage, is not higher than those of other large cities. Nevertheless, the toll has been a heavy one. While traffic fatalities for the nation last year rose to the highest point in nine years, traffic deaths in New York City showed a decrease. However, to balance that scale on the debit side of the ledger, the number of accidents and injuries rose sharply, even here in the city of New York. The cost last year to the people of New York was 542 deaths, resulting in a loss of manpower and services of a total of close to $10 million. 33,938 injuries, at a cost of almost $22,500,000, and property damage amounting to over $4 million. These accidents and loss of personal services and property damage have cost the citizens of the city of New York a total of more than $36 million. Now, this is the kind of a bill which we cannot pay by appropriation from the city treasury. As a matter of fact, the bill already has been paid. It has been paid by you, the people of the city of New York, by the rich, the poor, the great, and the small. Traffic accidents last year cost each one of us, every man, woman, and child, $4.67. If we were to add this cost to your 1951 tax bills, perhaps the magnitude of our responsibilities would be better appreciated. For a family of four, such a tax would have amounted to $18.68, just for wanton destruction on the streets of the city during 1950. And at this stage of the game, I certainly don't like to talk about taxes. There's enough talk about that in the newspapers. But we must remember, above all, the sorrow that strikes many families in our city because of these deaths and injuries. That is something that's far beyond anything that can be measured in mere dollars and cents. Since the day 50 years ago, when the first automobile appeared on the streets of New York, we have had a constantly growing problem of traffic accidents and traffic congestion. Today, the problem is greater than ever. What further action can we take to improve traffic conditions and reduce their hazards? This city has approximately 5,700 miles of streets, with a total of 33,000 intersections. Every weekday morning, 650,000 motor vehicles swarm into the city from all directions and return to the suburbs every evening. Some drastic changes are necessary to reduce congestion and obtain smooth and orderly movement of this traffic. And the safety factor is all important. Because of the size and population of our city, our share in this problem is greater than that of many states, to say nothing of the large cities of the country. Your city government is alert to its responsibility in coping with the traffic accident problem. The Department of Traffic, headed by Commissioner Reed, is making improvements in traffic conditions through the application of tested and proven engineering principles. The Department of Traffic, is instituting a number of changes to control this mass movement. Among these measures, is the initiation of an overall traffic signal operation plan for practically all of Manhattan. It is designed to expedite the orderly movement of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic with greater safety, and to obtain a greater measure of efficiency in the use of our street facilities. The first portions of this plan are now in operation on 9th and 10th Avenues, two important north and south arteries. And on 125th Street, a major cross-town thoroughfare. If I may say so, Commissioner, I personally have observed the movement of traffic on 9th and 10th Avenues, and it's worked, in my judgment, exceptionally well. And I hope that a little later on, we can come up with a similar plan for other north and south-bound streets, both on the east and on the west side of New York. Commissioner Reed has indicated that similar treatment of other north and south avenues in Manhattan, as well as other major cross-town streets, are being planned. Improved traffic signal timing has been installed on other heavily traveled streets in Brooklyn and in the Bronx, and the program is to be expanded in these and other boroughs. Since children are among the most frequent victims of traffic accidents, the Department of Traffic has enlisted the assistance and cooperation of the police department, the Board of Education, and the school authorities of the Catholic Archdiocese of New York, and the Diocese of Brooklyn, to formulate a school safety program. This will provide an individual traffic safety plan for each of the more than 1,000 public and parochial, elementary, and junior high schools of the city. It will be designed to afford maximum protection for pupils on their way to and from school, and will include the painting of 4,000 crosswalks, the erection of school crossing signs and traffic signals, the institution of parking regulations in the vicinity of school crossings, the proper location of bus stops, and the designation of one-way streets, play streets, and stop intersections, and whatever other traffic controls may be necessary. Progress has been made by the Department in a comprehensive program of pavement marking of the city streets to channel the movement of traffic, both vehicular and pedestrian, thus increasing vehicular capacity and at the same time providing additional safeguards against accidents. Traffic control devices, particularly signs, are being brought into uniformity in design and in use with recognized national and state standards. These are but a few of the many things that are being done to bring about a reduction in accidents by proper control of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Much more remains to be done. Our police are trained in traffic control and have achieved a good degree of coordination among the several municipal departments that have a relationship with street and highway safety or safety education. We have the satisfaction of knowing that in our action we are following the recommendations contained in the action program of the President's Highway Safety Conference insofar as they can be applied to improving conditions in the city of New York. The basic principles of the President's Conference Program are built upon the experience of many states and cities. The proposals have been re-emphasized each year since they were first written in 1946. The rise in the number of traffic accidents nationwide has prompted the President to recall the conference in the session in Washington next June to consider measures to halt the growing accident toll. The program is a practical one. But to be most effective, it requires just one thing. And that is the most powerful force of all. The power of public opinion. And that is where you ladies and gentlemen come in. There can be no successful program of traffic law, order, or regulation without public understanding, without public acceptance, and without active public participation. The achievement of a favorable body of public opinion is the crux of the job we need to do here in the city of New York. That is why you are here today. You and your organizations have been asked to come here to consider this problem. Because I feel that you can, all of you, materially contribute to the solving of it. Much energy is being expended in spreading information on traffic safety in this city. While we are appreciative of these efforts, we must admit that there is no unified direction to the activity. There is little certainty, for instance, that any proposed traffic safety activity meets with the approval of the people of the city. Coordination in its pure fine sense is the need. And an organization structure is the method. Cooperation is the motive power. I therefore urge you to take steps that will make your organizations the nucleus of a citizens committee for traffic safety of the city of New York. We are ready to assist you in the formation of the organization and to cooperate with you in its program. Such a committee will have the complete cooperation and participation of all those city departments, whose activities and functions bear some relationship to the traffic safety problem. With motor traffic at the heaviest volume in the country's history, and certain to increase as defense production gets rolling, more accidents may be looked for this year, unless immediate steps are taken to prevent them. It would be intolerable for us to fail to reduce the traffic accidents on our streets and highways, when all available manpower and financial resources are finally needed to meet the demands of our expanding defense economy. It is a very big job. There are many details, but I am confident it can be done. If you accept this challenge, you will have taken a major step for a better and safer city of New York. I want to thank each and every one of you for your participation with us today. We feel that this is the type of outpouring that indicates that you ladies and gentlemen are interested in a problem that concerns civic organizations, concerns your city government, and concerns the welfare of all the people of the city of New York, particularly the children who attend our schools. We feel that a conference of this type is bound to be productive of good. It's not a problem that can be solved overnight. It's been with us for a great number of years. We do feel that the need today is more urgent than ever. The traffic department, all other city departments, are closely allied with the civil defense effort, not only here in the city, but the civil defense effort that the state and the national government is vitally concerned with at the present time. And all of the best informed people that I've talked to both in Washington and here in the city of New York recognize that in the event of an emergency, one of the things that we really have to get moving on is the control of traffic. They all recognize the fact that unless we have parking regulations that are enforced, unless we have a means for seeing to it that traffic rolls freely through our streets in the event of an emergency, that that would be one of the very first problems with which we would be confronted here in the city of New York. Sometimes it's bad enough today to get through one of our city streets in normal times. So today, we feel that it's more important than ever to see to it that traffic is cleared through. We feel that it's important for the all-round picture of what the city needs for normal times. But right now, we feel it becomes even more important because of the national emergency. So I want to personally thank you for your attendance here today. I know that your attendance itself indicates that you're ready to participate with and cooperate with Commissioner Reed, with all the other city departments that are concerned with this problem. And may I ask you for your help, your cooperation, and in return, may I say to you that in speaking for the people of the city of New York, I know that I express their sentiments in saying thanks to you for coming here today. Thank you very much. Thank you.