This is Bing Crosby asking you to stop, look, and listen, because what you're about to hear will make you stop in your tracks, make you stand up and look, and compel you to listen. Cerebral palsy is not hopeless. CP cases need not be hidden away in institutions. In other words, handicapped CPs, cerebral palsied children, can be taught to walk and talk, and they can be taught to play. But they need your help desperately, so give generously to help beat CP. Help them beat CP, cerebral palsy. This is Bing Crosby speaking and telling you that cerebral palsy can be beaten through research and study. And through your donation, many thousands of children yet unborn will never have the grim shadow of this dread condition threatening their happiness. Remember, CP strikes all races, creeds, and colors. Give now to CP. Help beat CP. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Gloria Swanson. Children can't wait to grow up. A child must begin to learn to walk, talk, and read at the proper time. If it doesn't, the child may lose the chance to develop altogether. This is the tragic condition of children who have cerebral palsy hidden away in the dark corners of mental institutions or locked in the attics of their own homes by ashamed parents. They are labeled feeble-minded for life. Cerebral palsy usually occurs when brain cells fail to develop normally before birth or are injured during birth. But here lies our greatest hope. A person with cerebral palsy can be taught to retrace the message around the blocked area of the brain. But it takes the time of doctors and skilled instructors and above all it takes money. Send your contribution to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Gloria Swanson. Cerebral palsy is not hopeless. Cerebral palsy cases need not be hidden away in institutions. In other words, handicapped cerebral palsy children can be taught to walk and talk, but they need your help desperately. So give generously to help beat cerebral palsy. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. New York City. This is Gloria Swanson. We can help some helpless child crippled by cerebral palsy. Help these handicapped children. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. This is William Holden. Don't be the last one. That's right, folks. Don't be the last one to contribute to cerebral palsy. Of all the crippled children in the United States, cerebral palsy children are the most neglected, the least understood, and in the greatest need of attention at this time. Don't let cerebral palsy stop thousands of American children from walking, talking, and playing. Send a dollar or five or ten dollars to help a child learn to laugh. Remember, give generously today. Help them beat cerebral palsy. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. This is William Holden. CP stands for cerebral palsy. Help cerebral palsy children to walk, talk, and grow into useful, happy citizens. Give thoughtfully today. Remember, we can beat cerebral palsy. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Brenda Marshall. Cerebral palsy is not hopeless. Cerebral palsy cases need not be hidden away in institutions. In other words, handicapped cerebral palsy children can be taught to walk, but they need your help desperately. So give generously to help beat cerebral palsy. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. This is Brenda Marshall. We can help some helpless child crippled by cerebral palsy. Help these handicapped children. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. Ladies and gentlemen, this is MacDonald Carey. Did you ever realize how lucky you are because you can speak normally? Say yes or no when you want to? Without the power of speech, it's difficult for a human being to grow. All parents concede that the most terrifying period of a baby's development is before it learns to speak and can tell you what it needs and wants. And this is one of the most tragic aspects of cerebral palsy, or CP, as we shall call it here. Of all the crippled children in the United States, CP victims are the most neglected, the least understood, and in the greatest need of attention at this time. Help a little helpless baby to talk, walk, and grow up to be a useful, happy human being. Send your contribution to CP. Remember, children can't wait to grow up. Give to help beat CP. We can work wonders. Ladies and gentlemen, this is MacDonald Carey. Cerebral palsy can be beaten through research and study. And through your donation, many thousands of children, yet unborn, will never have the grim shadow of this dread condition threatening their happiness. Remember, CP strikes all races, creeds, and colors. Give now to CP. Help beat CP. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. We all know that boys and girls can't wait to grow up. They must learn to walk, talk, and play at the proper time. If they don't, they may lose forever their chance to develop properly. Now, this is exactly the tragic story of many thousands of children who have cerebral palsy. Hidden away in the dark corners of mental institutions or shut up in attics of their own homes, many, far too many of these boys and girls, are mistakenly labeled feeble-minded. But today, medical science can work wonders. A cerebral palsy victim can be taught to use other brain cells to do the work of the damaged portion. But this takes the time of skilled doctors and instructors. And above all, it takes money. So send your contribution to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. Please listen carefully. There is hope for cerebral palsy. Cerebral palsy cases need not be hidden away in institutions. Handicapped children can be taught to walk, talk, and play. But they need your help. So help them beat cerebral palsy. Send your contribution today to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Drew Pearson. Cerebral palsy is not hopeless. We can aid some child made helpless by this dread disease. So help these children. Send your contribution to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York. This is Jerry Colonna. Stop, look, and listen. Yes, stop, look, and listen. Because what you're about to hear will stop you in your tracks, make you stand up and look, and compel you to listen. Cerebral palsy is not hopeless. Cerebral palsy cases need not be hidden away in institutions. In other words, cerebral palsy children can be taught to walk and talk, can be taught to play. But they need your help desperately. So give generously. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. This is Jerry Colonna. Did you ever realize how lucky you are because you can speak normally, say yes or no when you want to? Without the power of speech, it is difficult for a child to grow. And this is one of the most tragic aspects of cerebral palsy. Of all the crippled children in the United States, these victims are the most neglected, the least understood, and in the greatest need of attention at this time. Help a little baby to talk, walk, and grow up to be a useful, happy human being. Send your contribution to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. This is Jerry Colonna. Cerebral palsy can be beaten through research, study, and treatment. And through your donation, many thousands of children yet unborn may never have the grim shadow of cerebral palsy threatening their happiness. Send your contributions to Bob Hope, Paramount Theater, New York City. All right. Oh, thanks for the mister, but just call me Rob. That's what the Internal Revenue Department calls me. What's the question? Well, that's not hard to answer at all. And the answer lies in the fact that even comedians are human beings. I imagine if you looked hard enough, for instance, you'd find that Milton Berle was human. But seriously, ever since my tours around the world in American hospitals for our great G.I.s, I wanted to take on a job where I can constructively help unfortunate people make something in their lives. That's why I welcome the chance to head the cerebral palsy campaign. Because in all my life, I've never seen such a case of utter neglect. How are you, partner? Well, hiya, partner. It's great to be working with you to help him beat CP. Well, actually, my part is very small. It's the mothers and dads of cerebral palsied kids that have pushed this cause forward over the last three or four years. I'm going to work as hard as I possibly can, but my hat's off to you, you and your kids. You're right about that. I'll bet you that our handsome announcer here doesn't know. Until several months ago, when it was explained to me, I was never sure. Like most other people do, I just labeled all these handicapped people spastics and presumed nothing could be done to help them. You're in the middle of creating Üfoc Евanoul inherited Mesaical and his mother in dinner, there's some of them available on behalf of his parents. If you're going to talk about also helps me get the kids to love. You're engaged with me on everything in private and their commute. This interpersonal family is highly Lessons are being a ahem of you who are privileged as well, and I'm looking forward to him advising them about it. You are Now, I'm hoping forging kids you would send to you a battle with a woman that sees me as well. You're not an assassin. You're going to be chosen to support me as I take a link today. That's it and I take into hope and find a Russian student and you're going for a long time ago. I take a beautiful time, really nobody finds that you can also help me. Thank you for joining us. That is the tragedy. It's unfortunate that everyone can't visit the special CP classes and clinics. If they could only see these handicapped children with their shining morning faces, eager to learn to walk and to talk, eager to learn to read and to spell and to figure. Then if folks would think back just a few years and remember that once all youngsters born with CP were placed in institutions for the feeble-minded or hidden in attics by parents who were ashamed of them, then they would realize the extent of this tragedy. Why today we know that three out of every four CP children have normal or superior intelligence. Most people are interested in finding out what does cause CP, so I give them the facts that I have just learned. I tell them that in most cases, CP results when a part of the brain that controls the muscles fails to develop properly before birth or is damaged during birth through injury or accident. And we're fairly sure that 10,000 American babies will be born with this condition each year. And then as these babies begin to grow, they become the most neglected and least understood of all handicapped children. The child means to talk and smile, but instead he moans or makes a wry face. He attempts to walk, but his little legs refuse to move properly. Right, but proper treatment and education mean teams of highly trained workers and treatment centers and clinics and special classes and schools. And children can't wait to grow up. 200,000 CP children in this country need that training and education right now. And we have facilities to take care of only 2,500. That's why we're launching this pioneer nationwide campaign on behalf of cerebral palsy. We're going to try to create enough public interest and raise a sufficient amount of money to help all of them. You. Yes, I mean you. I want you to listen. Listen carefully. Because what you're about to hear may startle you. It may even terrify you. But facts are facts. And here they are. May I take you to the scene of the happy Thompson home? Oh, look, David. Six weeks old and he smiles just like you do. Yeah? Well, he's stuck with your turned up nose, Mary. Oh, he's the most beautiful baby that ever was. Aren't you, darling? Your mommy's little darling. Yeah, she suppose he'll go out for football when he goes to my old alma mater. He's going to be a heartbreaker, dear. I can see that already. Hey, hand him over and let me hold him a minute, honey. My, but where, Pop, you little fellow, Davey Jr.? Opsie-daisy. Here we go to daddy now. Whee! Whee! That happy scene you just heard took place three years ago. And now, after a lapse of three years, I want to take you back to the same home. Back to the same parents. And back to the same baby. Listen. Silence. Yes, silence. Dead, dead silence. Why? Well, perhaps the family's doctor, Dr. Stevens, can tell us. Yes? Now, there's nothing but silence and a heavy sadness in what was once a happy household. Because, my friends, there is nothing quite as sad as a crippled child. You see, Davey Jr. was born with cerebral palsy. Cerebral palsy, but his parents didn't learn that until later. Davey Jr. can't walk, talk, or play. His little limbs are as pathetically limp as an old rag doll's. And the bright, happy future his parents dreamed of. Where is it? But that sounds like infantile paralysis, doctor. Infantile paralysis becomes apparent within a few days. Cerebral palsy becomes apparent slowly as the child fails to walk, talk, and develop normal skills. Both are cripplers. Well, in other words, it takes a long time before you discover your child has cerebral palsy. Very often. Because only relatively few physicians are sufficiently skilled in this field today to diagnose a cerebral palsy condition in an infant. And the alarming thing is that we know 10,000 American babies will be born with cerebral palsy each year. We're organized to combat the unpredictable cripplers, but we've never until this year organized to combat the predictable crippler, cerebral palsy. That sounds very serious, doctor. But tell me now, what happened to little Davey Jr.? That shall be a pleasure. Because cerebral palsy, right up until a few years ago, was considered hopeless. Little boys like Davey were doomed to crippled them and labeled feeble-minded and shut up in dark corners of institutions or in the attics of their own homes by ashamed parents. But today there is definite help for cerebral palsy children, as you shall hear for yourself, as we now continue the story of Davey Thompson Jr. I have a surprise for you, Mr. and Mrs. Thompson. Davey Jr. is in the next room. When you go in, say hello to him slowly. Oh, thank you, nurse. We'll go right in. Hello, Davey, darling. Hello. Hello, mommy. Hello. Daddy. David, did you hear what he said? He said hello, mommy and daddy. Yes, I know, darling, I know. It's been a long fight, but we're winning. Oh, yes, David, yes. He's almost four and a half years old. We've waited a long time to see him walk and hear those words. But it's been worth every minute of it. Yes, folks. Slowly, we're learning how to help a condition that has affected newborn babes since the beginning of time. The fight to beat cerebral palsy has begun. The United Cerebral Palsy Association throughout the country have organized to help bring the proper education and treatment to all cerebral palsy children. There should be no waiting for years by brokenhearted parents before cases like Davey Jr. can be correctly diagnosed and treated. For the earlier treatment and education starts, the more effective it is likely to be. Children can't wait to grow up. They must be taught to walk and talk at the proper time, even though they must learn to do them differently. Every donation received will be a four-fold weapon against cerebral palsy. It will be used to train doctors, therapists, and teachers to help cerebral palsy children, to establish new clinics and enlarge treatment centers, to promote research and study, and to bring this knowledge and help to all who need it. So please, give today and give generously. Send your contribution now. To help beat cerebral palsy, give today. Give those willing crippled children a chance to walk, talk, and play. Let's all beat cerebral palsy.