nor can they arbitrarily resist or refuse to consider changes in the relationships between states and peoples, which justice, fair play, and the enlightened sentiments of mankind demand. We must cooperate to build a world order, not to sanctify the status quo, but to preserve peace and freedom based upon justice. And we must be willing to cooperate with one another, veto or no veto, to defend, with force if necessary, the principles and the purposes of the Charter of the United Nations. Those are the policies we have pursued. In following those policies, we have been criticized at times for being too soft and at times for being too tough. I dislike both words. Neither accurately describes our earnest efforts to be patient but firm. We have been criticized for being too eager to find new approaches after successive rebukes in our efforts to effectuate our policies. And we have likewise been criticized for not seeking new approaches. We will not permit the criticism to disturb us, not to influence our action. We will continue to seek friendship with the Soviet Union and all other states on the basis of justice and the right of others, as well as ourselves, to opinions and ways of life which we do not and cannot share. But we must retain our perspective. We must guard against the belief that deep-rooted suspicions can be dispelled and far-reaching differences can be reconciled by any single act of faith. The temple of peace must be built solidly, stone upon stone. If the stones are loosely laid, they may topple down upon us. We must equally guard against the belief that delays or setbacks in achieving our objective make armed conflict inevitable. It is entirely possible that the failure or inability of the Soviet leaders to rid themselves of that belief lies at the very root of our difficulties. We will never be able to rid the world of that belief if we ourselves become victims to it. For centuries, devout men and women thought it was necessary to fight with one another to preserve their different religious beliefs. But through long and bitter experience, they learned that the only way to protect their own religious beliefs is to respect and recognize the right of others to their religious beliefs. war is inevitable only if states fail to tolerate and respect the rights of other states to ways of life they cannot and do not share. That is a truth we must all recognize. Because in the immediate aftermath of war, our efforts to induce nations to think in terms of peace and tolerance seem to meet with rebuff, we must not lose faith. What may be unrealizable now may be realizable when the wounds of war have had a chance to heal. We must not lose faith nor cease to struggle to realize our faith because the temple of peace cannot be completely built in a month or a year. But if the temple of peace is to be built, the idea of the inevitability of conflict must not be allowed to dominate the minds of men and tear asunder a world which God made one. It is that idea of the inevitability of conflict that is throttling the economic recovery of Europe. It is that idea that is causing artificial tensions between states and within states. The United States stands for freedom for all nations and for friendship among all nations. We shall continue to reject the idea of exclusive alliances. We shall refuse to gang up against any state. We stand with all peace-loving, law-abiding states in defense of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. Any nation that abides by those principles can count upon the friendship and cooperation of the United States irrespective of national differences or possible conflict of interest. No country desires unity among the principal powers more than we or has done more to achieve it. But it must be unity founded on the Charter and not unity purchased at its expense. We deplore the tendency upon the part of the Soviet Union to regard states which are friendly to us as unfriendly to the Soviet Union. and to consider as unfriendly our efforts to maintain traditionally friendly relations with states bordering on the Soviet Union. We deplore the talk of the encirclement of the Soviet Union. We have it from no less authority than Generalissimo Stalin himself that the Soviet Union is in no danger of encirclement. During the war, the Baltic states were taken over by the USSR. The Polish frontier and the Finnish frontier have been substantially modified in Russia's favor. Königsberg, Bessarabia, Bukowina, and Routinu are to be given to her. And in the Pacific, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, the Kyrgyz, have been assigned to her. Certainly, the Soviet Union is not a dispossessed nation. We know the suffering and devastation which Nazi aggression brought to the Soviet Union. The American people came to the support of the Soviet Union even before the United States was attacked and entered the war. Our people were allies of the Soviet people during the war and the American people in time of peace desired to live on terms of friendship, mutual helpfulness, and equality with the Soviet people. Before the Paris Peace Conference, the United States spared no effort to reconcile its views on the proposed treaties with the views of the Soviet Union. Indeed, it was the Soviet Union which insisted that our views be reconciled on all questions which the Soviet Union regarded as fundamental before they would consent to the holding of the conference. If, therefore, in the conference we differed on some questions, they were not questions that were fundamental from the Soviet viewpoint. While there were many issues which attracted little public attention on which the Soviet Union and the United States voted together, it was regrettable that on many issues which did command public attention, the Soviet Union and the newly established governments in Central and Southeastern Europe voted consistently together against all the other states. Whatever considerations caused this close alignment of the Soviet Union and her Slav neighbors on these issues, other states were not constrained to vote as they did by any caucus or any bloc action. It requires a very imaginative geographic sense to put China or Ethiopia into a Western bloc. And it was quite evident to discerning observers at Paris that not only China and Ethiopia but Norway and France were particularly solicitous to avoid not only the fact but the suspicion of alliance with any Western bloc. If the voting cleavage at Paris was significant, its significance lies in the fact that the cleavage is not between the United States and the Soviet Union or between a Western bloc and the Soviet Union. the cleavage is based upon conviction and not upon strategy or hidden design. I should be less than frank if I did not confess my bewilderment at the motives which the Soviet delegation attributed to the United States at Paris. Not once but many times they charged that the United States had enriched itself during the war and under the guise of freedom for commerce and equality of opportunity for the trade of all nations was now seeking to enslave Europe economically. Coming from any state these charges would be regrettable to us. They are particularly regrettable when they are made by the Soviet government to whom we advance more than $10 billion of land lease during the war and with whom we want to be friendly in time of peace. The United States has never claimed the right to dictate to other countries how they should manage their own trade and commerce. We have simply urged in the interest of all peoples that no country should make trade discriminations in its relations with other countries. On that principle the United States stands. It does not question the right of any country to debate the economic advantages or disadvantages of that principle. It does object to any government charging that the United States enriched itself during the war and desires to make handouts to European governments in order to enslave their peoples. Long before we entered the war President Roosevelt took the dollar sign out of the war. He established land lease as the arsenal of democracy and opened that arsenal to all who fought for freedom. Europe did not pay and was not asked to pay either to build or to replenish that arsenal. That was done with American labor and American resources. The land lease settlements inaugurated by President Roosevelt have been faithfully and meticulously carried out by President Truman. We want to assist in European reconstruction because we believe that European prosperity will contribute to world prosperity and to world peace. That is not dollar democracy. That is not imperialism. That is only justice and fair play. We in America have learned that prosperity like freedom must be shared not on the basis of handouts but on the basis of the fair and honest exchange of the products of the labor of free men and free women. America stands for social and economic democracy at home and abroad. the principles embodied in the social and economic reforms of recent years are now a part of the American heritage. It would be strange indeed if in this imperfect world our social and economic democracy were perfect but it might help our Soviet friends to understand us better if they realized that today our social and economic democracy is further away from the devil take the hindmost philosophy of bygone days than the Soviet Russia is from Tsarist Russia. whatever political differences there may be among us we are firmly and irrevocably committed to the principle that it is our right and the right of every people to organize their economic and political destiny through the freest possible expression of their collective will. We oppose privilege at home and abroad. We defend freedom everywhere and in our view human freedom and human progress are inseparable. The American people extend the hand of friendship to the people of the Soviet Union.
