Usually, it devolves upon me to introduce the speaker. I'm going to introduce myself tonight, and I'm Dr. Myers. I'm going to speak to you tonight on the subject of communicable diseases in childhood. Now, I think many of you may realize that there's been a tremendous decline both in the number of communicable diseases in childhood and also in the fatalities of death that used to follow these diseases of childhood. In 1917, in this city, for children under five years of age, the death rate was about 3,300 per 100,000. In 1946, it was 778. You see, that's a reduction of almost 70 or 75 percent. Now, there are many reasons for that decline. Better sanitation, better housing, a pure milk supply, a pure water supply, increase of knowledge of disease, tremendous improvement in the treatment of the disease as a rule, and of the complications of the disease as I'll point out to you. And also, a peculiar thing has happened that apparently these diseases themselves have become less severe and less dangerous. Apparently, the bacteria or the viruses or whatever cause these diseases are not as virulent in the child as they used to be 20, 30, and 40 years ago. Whether that condition will persist or not, nobody knows. But it is a situation at the present time. Now, I am going to speak to you as we go along of a number of these diseases, and I'm going to tell you something about each individual disease, and what it used to be and what it is today, and also what the period of exclusion of these is for the children, that is, how long they have to remain at home, what happens to persons who are exposed to the case in the home, other children, for instance, going to school, and what we know today and can do concerning prevention and treatment of these various diseases. Now, the first disease that I want to speak about is diphtheria. This used to be one of the great killers of children. It used to occur in epidemics. Even as short time ago as 1918, in New York City, for children under 15 years of age, there were 11,454 cases, and there were nearly 1,250 deaths from diphtheria. In 1947, in the whole city of New York, and remember in 1947, New York City was probably almost twice as large as it was in 1918, there were only 378 cases against 11,500, and there were only 12 deaths. And then last year in the city of New York, there were only 171 cases and 6 deaths. Now, you can realize that that is a remarkable improvement. Now, we can say with a great deal of pleasure that a great part of that improvement is due to the work of the Department of the City of New York. Primarily through the work of the laboratory where toxoid and antitoxin were studied and produced through Dr. Park, and then the spread of inoculation of toxoid into the community and to the children, so that we have this tremendous improvement in the diphtheria situation in New York City. The work in New York City was copied all over the world, and you have a great decline in diphtheria almost all over the world, particularly where preventive measures are used, as I shall try to point out to you. Now, in these communities right here, in Mott Haven in 1948, we had one death from diphtheria and nine cases. And in Maraseni, we had nine cases and one death also. Now, really and truly, these nine cases were not necessary in either of the districts. Probably many of these cases had never received proper protection against diphtheria. Now, if we have a case of diphtheria in the home, the child is excluded in the home, that is quarantined, until seven days after the illness has begun. And there have to be two cultures negative 24 hours apart. Now, diphtheria is one of the few diseases in which children in a home in which there is a communicable disease is excluded from school. The child cannot go to school if there is a case of diphtheria in the home. And he can't go back to school until one culture is negative after the case has recovered. Or if the child has gone to a hospital until you have a negative culture after the child has been removed to a hospital. Now, how have we prevented diphtheria? Or the spread of diphtheria? By the use of the so-called toxoid. You know there is antitoxin used against diphtheria. That is when the case actually occurs. But to prevent diphtheria, we treat, we use a material that is obtained from toxin. It is, the toxin really means a poison. And antitoxin is the, is the substance against the poison. But we use a changed antitoxin, which is called a toxoid. And that stimulates, when it's injected under the skin in the child, stimulates the body to manufacture what are known as antibodies. Diphtheria antibodies. So that the child, if it's exposed to diphtheria, will not develop the disease. Now, in the Department of Health, the newest practice is to give one dose of this toxoid when the infant is seven and a half months old. And we give another second dose at nine months. When the child is three and a half years old, it receives what is called a booster dose, a small dose of the toxoid. And again, on admission to school. And that actually will protect the child against contracting diphtheria. Now, there used to be another disease which was also a great cause of death and suffering among children. And that was scarlet fever. Now, scarlet fever, we have learned to know, appears in a number of ways, phases, or forms. You can have scarlet fever with the rash. But you can also have scarlet fever without the rash. You've all heard of the condition which is known as septic sore throat. Now, septic sore throat is scarlet fever without the rash. Scarlet fever and septic sore throat are caused by a streptococcus. A certain form of streptococcus. Now, in 1918, in the city of New York, there were nearly 4,500 cases and 177 deaths. In 1948, there were over 2,400 cases with not a single death of scarlet fever in New York City. Now, that is rather amazing. I can remember as an intern in medical, in hospital, working in a scarlet fever ward. And it was a terrible disease at that time. In fact, one or two of our nurses and a doctor died of scarlet fever. And very often scarlet fever at that time was combined with diphtheria. Now, at that time, a child who had scarlet fever was kept until the skin is entirely peeled. And sometimes we kept children for six weeks and three months. Now, the exclusion is much shorter. You will only keep them until the nose and throat have become normal and for not less than seven days. The... The... It's felt now that the disease cannot be spread after the seventh day from one child to another. Now, we do not even exclude contacts in the home from school. If there's a child with scarlet fever and there are two or three brothers or sisters in the same family, they are allowed to go to school. I mean, the scarlet fever is a prime example of what I said at the opening of my talk here. How a disease had become less virulent in the human organism. Why it has done so, we don't know. But it's apparently so. Now, measles is a very prevalent disease among children and occurs very often around between five and nine years of age. Now, in 1918, there were over 28,000 cases of measles in New York City. And in 1940... With 790 deaths. And in 1948, there were nearly 30... 29 cases... 29,000 cases again, with 25 deaths. Now, you may ask why this is. It is possible also that the disease is not as virulent. But remember, we used to have a great many children die of the complications of measles. That is pneumonia, middle ear inflammation, and mastoid. Now, we give them penicillin, or the sulfur drugs, or one of the other antibiotics. And even if they have middle ear disease, it doesn't spread to the mastoid, and you no longer have these terrible conditions which resulted in so many deaths from measles. That is one example of the great value of present-day treatment of complications of these diseases. Now, we also have a method of preventing measles. We give children... a substance that is derived from the human blood... from the plasma of the human blood, which is known as gamma globulin. Gamma globulin. And we give them one injection of that under the skin... if the child is more than six months old, and less than five years old. and has been exposed within eight days. Now, that will either prevent the disease entirely, or if the child gets it, it will probably modify it so it has a very mild attack. Now, that is a very interesting procedure, and a very valuable procedure. If a child has measles, it cannot go to school until five days after the appearance of the rash. And the other children in the home are not excluded. Now, the next disease I want to touch upon is German measles. Now, they both have the same name, but they're very different diseases, entirely different diseases. Both are due to viruses, which we haven't even recognized. We don't know what the virus even looks like. Now, German measles in itself is a very mild disease. And very few people have ever died of German measles. There have been some few bad complications, but very few have actually died of it. But German measles in the last five or six years has come into prominence because it has explained some of the diseases or abnormalities with which newborn children have been afflicted. About five or six years ago, I believe, in Australia, there was a severe outbreak of German measles. And there were quite a few children born at that time who showed abnormalities, so-called congenital abnormalities. That is, they had congenital heart disease, or they might have had cataracts in the eye, or they had mental deterioration. And a survey was made of the mothers. And it was found, much to everybody's surprise, that many of these mothers who had these abnormal children had had German measles in the first three or four months of pregnancy. And other investigations have been made in other parts of the world, and that has been confirmed. And it has been found that actually, that is actually so, that there is definite danger if a mother has this disease in the early parts of pregnancy, that she may give birth to a deformed child. And it explains some, some of the reasons why we have these deformities at birth in children. Now again, in the German measles, the child cannot return to school until five days after the appearance of the rash, and the children are not excluded. Now the next disease I want to discuss is whooping cough. In 1918, there were over 5,500 cases of whooping cough in New York City, and 665 deaths, a large number of deaths. Almost 10%, over 10% of those who had whooping cough died. Whooping cough is particularly dangerous under the first year. In 1948, there were about 1,600 cases in New York City, with only eight deaths. You had a tremendous drop, both in the number of cases and the number of deaths. Again, it is possible that the virulence of the disease has altered itself. And it is also probably due to our better medication, better treatment of the disease, with penicillin or the sulfur drugs. Now, whooping cough again has had its great complication pneumonia. And the younger the child was, the more chance it had of dying of pneumonia. Now, a child with whooping cough should stay in the house for two weeks after the appearance of the hoop, and should not return to school until three weeks after the hoop has developed. We get many complaints about children with whooping cough who are allowed to play around the street and play with other children. They shouldn't, the parents should not allow that. They should be kept in the house away from other children for at least two weeks. The contacts to whooping cough are not excluded from school. Now, one way in which the whole situation in whooping cough has been better is that we have a vaccine to protect the child against the development of the contraction of whooping cough. Here in the Department of Health, we give the first dose at three months, a second dose at four and a half months, and a booster dose at six months. Recently, of course, you have known, spoken about, read about, poliomyelitis. And that is, has been a serious disease, is a serious disease. Not only in the fact that children die of it, but very often are crippled by it, in more or less degrees. In 1944, in this city, we had 102 deaths from poliomyelitis. In 1948, we had only 10 deaths. The number of cases, you know, vary from year to year in poliomyelitis. This year, up to the first of November, we had 2,288 cases of polio in New York City, with 172 deaths. And in the Bronx, up to October 31st of this year, for this year, we had 310 cases with 23 deaths. Now, there are a number of things that should be noted concerning children, as regards poliomyelitis. It is probably not advisable to have any operation, particularly tonsillectomies, during the polio epidemic period. So as it has been found that, bulbar paralysis is much more apt to occur after children have had tonsillectomies, than if they had not had them. We are gradually learning something more about polio and the cause of polio. And apparently, there are numbers of viruses that resemble the polio virus. And they cause diseases that resemble polio, but are either without the evidence of paralysis, or they assume other forms in which there are pains in the muscles or joints. And these are different strains, or different types, of the virus that causes polio. Now, another disease that we have among children is acute rheumatic fever. Acute rheumatic fever. Now, that is a very serious disease. In 1947, there were 84 deaths from acute rheumatic fever in New York City. But that isn't the whole story of acute rheumatic fever. Probably 99% of all heart disease in children is caused, or is the result, of acute rheumatic fever. It's a very bad disease, often fatal disease. There are often relapses. And it is a disease which, at the present time, we have no adequate, for which we have no adequate treatment. Probably most of you have read in the papers within the last few weeks of a hormone, which is known as cortisone. Cortisone. Cortisone. Cortisone. And this is supposed, in some cases, to have had a very beneficial effect on the cause of acute rheumatic fever. If that is so, it will be a tremendous blessing in medicine and for the human race. Because it will not only mean that it may have some effect on heart disease, on acute rheumatic fever, but it might stop it before heart disease follows the disease itself. Of course, we don't know. Those things have to be tried out and the results properly evaluated. Now, one other, another disease, of course, which used to be tremendously active, was smallpox. I mean, in these modern days, in our country, at least in the East, you see very little smallpox. Now, one of the reasons of that, of course, in New York City, is that all children who go to school must be vaccinated. And we vaccinate children, at least in the Department of Health, at four and a half months. And we recommend revaccination between the fifth and the seventh years. Chickenpox is another disease, which in itself is not dangerous. However, one must be on his guard, in chickenpox that occurs in an older child, particularly seventeen or more. Because very often, in the older ages, chickenpox, the diagnosis has been thought to be chickenpox. And it was actually smallpox. So that any eruption that looks like chickenpox in someone seventeen years or older in New York City must be sent for diagnosis to guard against the possibility of it being smallpox. Those things have occurred. One other thing which we have in children, and particularly common in the last five or ten years in New York City, has been ringworm of the scalp. In which it's an infection with a fungus of the hair follicles. The hair falls out, is not taken care of, the entire hair may be lost. And we demand that children with ringworm have to have very careful treatment. They must be cleared in our own ringworm clinics before they can be returned to school. And most of them, in New York City at least, receive x-ray treatment. In which the hairs, under the influence of the x-ray, entirely fall out. And the fungus is destroyed. And then the hair regrows. The child is readmitted to school. There's one other disease I want to touch upon, that used to be very common in childhood, and that is tuberculosis. Tuberculosis is fairly common in children up to one year at age, and then we don't see much of it in children until in girls around the age of fifteen and boys around seventeen. We used to see a great deal of tuberculosis of the glands in children. Particularly the glands of the neck. We used to see children very often with great big scars along the muscle here. And those were children who had had operations which the glands of the neck had to be removed. You don't see that in this country anymore, because it was due to, in the great majority of cases, to infected milk. Milk that came from tuberculosis cows. Now that your milk is pasteurized, and your herds of cows are tested for tuberculosis by tuberculin tests, and every precaution is made to keep these cows healthy, you no longer see much tuberculosis in children. And that, again, in itself is a great advance. Now I have spoken to you about these various things, and try to bring out some of the important, interesting facts concerning communicable diseases in childhood. And I want to say to you that I emphasize the decline of the severity of these conditions, so that I could contrast at the end something that is as important as your communicable diseases in children, if not more important. And that is deaths from accidents. Now in the United States in 1946, there were nearly 33,000 deaths among children 5 to 19 years old from accidents. No, excuse me. There were 33,000 deaths, 5 to 19 years of age, from accidents. And 37% of those were due to accidents in the home. Now, that is a great problem. The safeguarding of the child in the home. Falls, slipping on rugs, accidents from cooking, scalding water, electrical outlets, electrical contrivances of various kinds, particularly cause these deaths in children. And, in the end, I want to point out something to you. That in the children, 5 to 9 years of age, deaths from accidents in the United States were three times the combined deaths from polio and pneumonia in children that age. In the 10 to 14 age group, there were five times as many deaths from accidents as from heart disease. And in the 15 to 19 group, there were twice as many deaths as from tuberculosis, heart disease, and pneumonia combined. So, you see that this is a problem and a challenge. In order that, we may not sacrifice all these children through accidents which very often can be controlled or avoided, so that we do not lose children through accidents, whom we have saved through the great decline and better treatment of communicable diseases. Now, as usual, we would be very glad to entertain any questions from anybody. Hope you don't ask too involved or hard questions. Do you want to bring up that speaker? Just a minute. Just a minute. Just a minute. Is rheumatic fever a virus? We do not know. Probably not. Apparently, rheumatic fever is caused by a so-called hemolithic streptococcus. That's a germ. That's a bacterium. Yes. It is not caused by a virus, as far as we know. Thank you. Maybe over here, I have a question. Over there. Over there. Sure. In the case of polio, I wanted to know, like, my child was attacked in the epidemic of 1944. It... what was the... the two cases of polio. It was back in the epidemic of 1944. What was the two cases of polio, permanent polio, that they told me, or the one who cripples? I cannot. Could you repeat the question? I was told by the doctor in 1944 about the polio cancer. I have a child attack, attacked by polio. He told me it was not permanent paralysis. And I want to know between the difference of the permanent liberation or the temporary paralysis of the polio. What the doctor explained me, see? My temporary paralysis or by... What did she want? What? What was the one who was on the very floor? What was the one who was on the very floor? What was the one who was on the very floor? Well, that's one of those questions which we cannot answer here. See, you have a private doctor, and he knows the case much better than I would. And he could answer that question. I can't tell you that. There are methods of treatment now, I think, that are far advanced than that they were in 1944. Methods of treatment by water... by water treatment and by exercise. And I would advise you, if you have any questions in your mind, to get in touch with the National Polio Society. And they can give you advice on that. Or have your doctor get in touch with them. I don't understand why. Is there anything permanent or temporary paralysis? Oh, yes. Now, in poliomyelitis, there is, during the disease, a time when the child may be paralyzed. If the case is going to be a mild one, that child, probably by the end of the second week, will recover from its paralysis. But if the case is going on to a severe paralysis, instead of getting better, that child may get worse, and it leads to, very often in that condition, to a permanent paralysis. Just a minute. Dr. Maya, I don't need that I can talk about myself to be very down town. Just at present, we're having a series of spring diseases among our children. Today we had 19 of the first-year children out with chicken pox. Now, that's something we've never had at this time of the year. The older children are out with a croupy cold that has all the symptoms of the whooping cough, but not the hoop. It's a slimy cough. Their noses are congested. They vomit. And they're really very sick with it. Well, we have not here received any reports of any epidemic of that kind. Uh-huh. But as far as your colds are concerned, there have been in recent years so-called virus or viral infections, which have been characterized by colds and sometimes intestinal disorders with vomiting. And it may be that what you're speaking about may be one of these mild virus infections. We don't know. We had four out in one test for that today. Yes. Maybe. You mentioned, Dr. Meyer, in poliomyelitis, the advisability of not having any operations such as tonsillectomies performed. I was just wondering if you would be good enough to give us a few more pointers about polio, about taking the care of children and the prevention of polio as far as we know. I've heard of a few of those, but I was wondering if you would repeat some of those for us. Well, I think we must say that the medical profession must confess. Neither they nor anybody else knows too much at the present moment concerning the cause and prevention of poliomyelitis. We do know, however, that in children they should not get over-exercised, overheated during the polio season. They should not get chilled, suddenly chilled. You should get plenty of rest, plenty of sleep. Now, beyond that, we cannot say anything positive. Probably during polio epidemics, there are hundreds of persons, thousands of persons, who are going about their ordinary duties carrying the virus, and may or may not have had mild infections. They are so-called subclinical cases. And so, in this area here, in this district, and also, and also in Marasania, we have kept spot maps of the cases as they have occurred. That is, spotted them according to the location of street and number. And it seemed in both districts that there were more cases of poliomyelitis in the better-class districts than there were in the poorer districts. Now, that is in line with what I just said about carrying. The children who live in the poorer districts are more apt to stay in the city. They're in crowded environment among a great many people. And these people probably give them small doses of infection, maybe, of poliomyelitis. So, they gradually become immune to disease and do not develop the disease. While children who are better protected in better homes are not in such crowds. And they're perhaps more apt to get poliomyelitis. We do not know too much about the spread of the disease. I thought I had polio in 1938, and it was the only case in the city when he had them. It was in the winter. The only cases. There was nobody else had in the city at that time. In the wintertime. In the wintertime. In the wintertime. The day of Thanksgiving, he had. Well, let me say this. We constantly, we always had some poliomyelitis in New York City. Summer or winter. We always have some. But it's always easier. He was the only case on that time. It is more frequent during the summer and fall months. He was only one year old when he had a baby. He was very late at first. Are you sure of that? That's what they said. Well, I mean, I... That's the Department of the Board of Health told me that it was the only case. That's what I know. The Board of Health told you that. Probably it's true. I don't want to talk to them. I was thinking about polio. But when I had it, I was very thin. And the teacher was telling us that many children, many children have it and carry it around, just as you said. But a lot of children are strong enough to conquer it. I was quite thin. And my mom said I wasn't poor. I don't think that has anything to do with it, whether you're thin or robust or stout. I don't think that's a factor. I've never heard of it, see. I don't think that's a factor. I don't think of it. It's just a factor. I don't think of it. And I'm going to think of it. But the rest of the body is the only case. That's a factor. So why don't you think of it? Well, we're not going to think of it. It is caused by a virus. And that virus is excreted in the intestinal contents. And it will get into sewage. And as I told you in the talk a little while ago, there are apparently various forms of this virus, and apparently some of them do not cause paralysis. There are forms now which are known as form C, or the Kuksocki virus. What is acute rheumatic fever and how can it be prevented? I mean, just what is it? Well, I wish you or somebody else could tell me how it can be prevented because we don't know actually. We do know, however, if children are kept warm, avoiding colds and sore throats, they're much less apt to get it and get recurrences of it than children who are not so protected. We also know that children in low income groups or children who live in slum areas are more apt to develop acute rheumatic fever than other children. Now, how can it be recognized also? Oh, well, that's easily recognized. At least, I say easily. The outspoken case, of course, is readily recognized. The child has fever. It has pain. It has swollen joints. And it may develop heart condition. Now, however, there are forms of rheumatic fever that are very, very vague and very difficult to diagnose. A child may be merely pale or anemic or a child may twitch like this, her face, having what is known as St. Vitus dance. And that child has or has had rheumatic fever. And even if you didn't know that it had an outspoken disease, its heart might still have become affected. So there are various grades of acute rheumatic fever. But we do not know how to prevent it. We know a few things, a few simple things, how to possibly better the conditions of the child, so it won't get it. But to prevent it, we have no measures. There are no drugs. There are no drugs. Salicylic acid, when the child has the disease, will perhaps have some effect on the joints and will certainly lessen the pain. But it does not cure the disease. As I told you in the body of my talk, there's recently been, obtained a hormone from the adrenal glands called cortisone. And this, we hope, will have some effect in the treatment of the disease. Is there ever any isolation in the whooping cough, Dr. Myers? Well, just as I told you, the only isolation is the child is supposed to stay in his own home and off the streets for two weeks after the hoop has begun and not return to school until three weeks after the hoop began. But the contacts may return home. Contacts may go to school. They may go to school. That's right. They are not excluded. The only disease now among children in which contacts are not allowed to go to school is diphtheria. Even in poliomyelitis, the children are allowed to attend school. Is the disease ever severe enough for hospitalization in the whooping cough? Oh, yes. Oh, yes. It can be a very serious disease. Very serious disease. Are children with ringworm ever permitted to go to school? Children with ringworm with a scalp? Yes. Permitted? Not if we recognize the condition. Some teacher told me that in her school they have a special class for children with ringworm. Well, they used to have some special classes. Special classes, that right here about ten years ago, eight or ten years ago, there were so many cases of ringworm in certain parts of the city that they had to set up special classes in the school. That's true. But we don't have these special classes anymore because the incidence has been greatly decreased because we recognize the cases and treated them. So there's no longer the spread from child to child. Dr. Myers, you didn't mention anything about mumps. I understand this can affect the reproductive lens. Yes. I didn't mention anything about mumps. That is true. Now, mumps is usually regarded as an innocuous disease, but it can, in men and women and boys and girls, have complications. And the complications, particularly as this gentleman has said, of the reproductive glands, the ovaries in the female and the testes in the male. And it can lead to sterility in both male and female. And it can lead to very unpleasant conditions through these complications. But there's a rule, nobody dies of mumps. You can sometimes get meningitis from mumps. But it is rare. Now in mumps, the child is excluded till all swelling has disappeared. And the other children of the family can attend school. Now, two weeks from tonight, we shall have... One more question. The lady wanted to know, in her area there's a lot of ringworm. And she wanted to know, were there other areas that it was affected by beside the scalp? Oh, yes. We can have ringworm of any part of the body. Any part of the body. Particularly the face and neck. But that is not so dangerous. And we do not exclude children from school to the extent that we do for ringworm of the scalp. If the child is under treatment, it is allowed to be in school with ordinary ringworm of the skin. My nephew was sent home on account, he has a suspicion of ringworm. Yeah, but ringworm where? Of the face? On the... He's in the throat, you know? Around the neck. Of the neck, yes. That's what I say. Well, he can return to school if he's under treatment. Under treatment, please. Under treatment, yes. He can return to school if he's under treatment. Under treatment, please. Under treatment, yes. He can return to school. Thank you very much, Professor. I know, like she almost... she killed her child. The child had measles, I think, and she took an ice pack and put it on his head. What happened to the child? The child died. He took like... she took ice cubes. Like he was... he was sweating and took ice cubes. Well, of course, I don't know why she did that. Or it might have been that they thought there was a development of the... beginning mast or did it. And they used to put ice packs there for that. Now, I doubt very much that the child died of the ice pack. It might have died of the mast or did it. But why did you... the child's face is all... he was all like crumpled up. His face is twisted. Well, again, that's one of these questions. It's very difficult to discuss because we do not know the exact circumstances. And it's very difficult to give an opinion in a matter of that kind. Now, two weeks from tonight, we shall have a very interesting meeting on tuberculosis. Now, as you know, this is one of the... still one of the great problems in medicine and in the community. There's a great deal of tuberculosis in Mount Haven and Morris, India. And in some instances, some parts of the two districts, it is increasing. Particularly the new cases of tuberculosis. And I think it would be advisable for you and all your friends to come here two weeks from tonight. And I want to thank you again very much. Thank you. Thank you.