From the Mayor's reception room in City Hall, your City Station brings you, transcribed, the proceedings of the Certificate of Merit Awards by the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee to 33 Department Records Officers. And here now is Miss Rebecca B. Rankin, Chairman of the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee, to begin today's proceedings. We are here primarily to present Certificates of Merit to the persons of some 31 departments who are cooperating with us 100% in our records management program. It is a great joy that the Mayor has invited us to have our ceremony in this beautiful room. I hope you appreciate it as I do. It is the most charming room in the City Hall, in my estimation. It has been recently redecorated by the Department of Public Works, and they certainly deserve a great deal of credit. Look at these beautiful hangings and the lovely upholstery that you are enjoying in this room. We are particularly happy that the Mayor has invited us to come here. I would like to introduce each of the commissioners who are here. I am sure there are too many for me to introduce individually, but the members of the committee we should like to mention particularly. The City Clerk, Murray Stand, is a member of our committee. Mr. Stand is not here today, but he is representing... Why, Murray Stand, won't you come up and say a word? Won't you say a word, Mr. Stand? Ladies and gentlemen, this is really unexpected, although I was announced as not being present. The only thing I could say is that I feel that the City of New York is going to suffer a severe loss when Ms. Reinking leaves the service of the City. She has been an inspiration to all and has been of great help to every department and the entire municipality. We need more Jeanette, more Rebecca Rankins in City Service. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Stand. I wasn't looking for compliments at all. I wanted him to tell you that he really is the custodian of many of our most important records. Then we also have the City Register, another important officer on our committee. I think that he is on vacation, but his assistant, Mr. Gamble, is representing him today. Mr. Gamble? Thank you very much, Mr. Gamble. Commissioner Bennett, Chairman Bennett of the City Planning Commission, is also a member of our committee. I haven't seen him this morning, but his assistant, Mr. Allen. Mr. Allen, will you stand? I'd like to give all of these people credit because this committee is a cooperative effort, and every one of these persons have been most helpful. Director of the Budget, Mr. Beam. We are very happy that he is here. And his two assistants, Mr. Limburg and Mr. Holstman, are our working members, and they are hard workers. Mr. Ellard, Director of the Bureau of Real Estate, is on our committee. Is Mr. Ellard here? Or a representative? Well, he's a good worker anyway, even if he isn't here. He's probably on vacation. Corporation Counsel, Mr. Hurley, has he a representative? Yes, he does. I'm Mr. Scandler, Detective Assistant, and I have Mr. Kelly, who is not often as with us. And who does the hard work, Mr. Kelly? Thank you very much. And Mr. Samuel Rainbow, who is Chief of the Bureau of Municipal Investigation of the Comptroller's Office. Mr. Rainbow here? Mr. Rainbow, thank you very much. Now, these are the persons that have done so much for us. I also rejoice to see that another person, who is not a member of our committee, but who might well be, he has been a stimulus to us and has prodded us on to do a great deal more than we would have done had he not been here. Are you aware that the City of New York is having a very thorough self-examination? Probably more than any other city in the country has ever attempted before. You're all aware of it because you've been knowing the surveys that have been going on. Well, we too, of Records Management, have had a survey, and a very helpful one it was. It was possible because Dr. Luther Gulick was the one who saw the necessity for having it. Dr. Gulick, won't you take a bow? He has made it aware to the Board of Estimate, I believe, the work of the committee perhaps more than we ourselves have been able to bring to their attention. Consequently, the Board of Estimate has made appropriations which started us on our Records Center in the Rhinelander Building, which is now quite well established on the seventh floor of the Rhinelander Building. You're cordially invited to come over and see that establishment any time that you like. We have taken a great many people over, and we are much interested that we're having so many visitors from all over the country. Only this week, I received a letter from the National Institute of Municipal Clerks, and this is what they say concerning New York. In our belief, New York is pioneering on a very large scale in a highly important and absolutely necessary project in preserving for posterity the important archives of America's largest city. The lessons you have learned and the accomplishments that you have made can be of great service to the hundreds and thousands of smaller municipalities facing problems that are less voluminous but otherwise similar. We feel sure that you will vouchsafe to these archivists of smaller cities your generous cooperation through this, their national professional organization. We also, I believe, this morning have representatives of the National Records Association here this morning, and we're very happy that they are interested in our project. I'm not sure, do we have the city clerk of Newark here today, Mr. Rikenstein? He told me that he was coming. He made a visit to the archives this past week with other officials from the city of Newark, and they are intensely thrilled over the progress that we have made, and are anticipating to follow in our footsteps. Yesterday, after the news was released in the papers, a representative of the Department of Central Service of Chicago, which is a county office, came immediately down to us to see what we were doing with archives. Their problem in the Cook County in Chicago is very similar to ours, and they're beginning and are glad to see what we are able to give them. Interestingly enough, Philadelphia is also equally interested in New York's project. We had here, only a couple weeks ago, Commissioner Sherishore, who is the newly appointed Commissioner of Records of the city of Philadelphia. Philadelphia has been smarter than any of the rest of us large cities in that they have written into their new charter, which became effective on January 1952, a provision for a Department of Records, which is responsible for forms control and design, for municipal archives, and for a record center. They had been up here previously, the Charter Revision Commission, to see what we were doing, and apparently they did approve because they have set their charter up to do the very kind of work that we are doing now in New York City. Equally interested have been some of the states. It seems that we start with the smallest one. Rhode Island was down a month ago, and their records officers are studying our setup in the Rhinelander Building, and also pattering after it. Nor do we cease to be an example to only states and cities. We find that the industries generally throughout the country know that we have gotten hold of a problem and have tackled it forthrightly, and they too are coming to see the methods that we are using. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York is now following our plan, and the DuPont Company have sent representatives to see what and how we are doing it. We also had the Ford Motor Company send their people, so that we feel we are setting an example to quite a number of municipalities, states, and industries in this problem which we have been handling or trying to handle for a good many years. As you know, it is not really new, but it is only since March 1950 when the Board of Estimates saw fit to give us a small staff of only seven people, four clerks, two labors, and one supervisor, is the staff, a number of the staff with which we are now operating, this record center and municipal archives in the Rhinelander Building. The budget director has been most sympathetic and understanding. We have only gotten as far as we have because he sees it as a general problem of all departments. And consequently, with the help of each one of you, the commissioners understanding what we are doing, and if they will appoint, as many of them have, a records officer responsible to them, he then, that records officer, can go and educate the rest of the bureaus in the department. You may think this is a simple problem. It isn't. It's a very complicated one. And every person involved with records must understand the purpose and the objectives. And they have to have a sympathetic understanding so that they will go along with the program as it progresses. All of us hug unto ourselves the records that we have made. They are a part of us. It's quite natural. I'm just leaving my office, and you should see the kind of things I'm taking with me. That's the way all officials do. Mr. Mayor, we are so happy to have you come. Mr. Vincent R. Impelletary, our mayor of New York, the meeting is now yours, Mr. Mayor. I've just been filling in until you were able to get here. This day we chose is the busiest day for the mayor. He won't swear at any of you, but he's been swearing in a good many people this morning. That's why he's late, I'm sure. And also he has a hearing at 11 o'clock, so this meeting is going to be very snappy. We are very happy that the mayor has come. And as I have told you, we are very appreciative of his letting us meet in his beautiful reception room. Mr. Mayor, the meeting is yours. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want you to know that I was not late. I was merely over the other side of my office swearing in the new chairman of the Tribeurna Bridge and Tunnel Authority, Commissioner Robert Moses. Robert Moses. And after the swearing in ceremony, I had to have a little conference with Mr. Moses about the tremendous job that he's just undertaken once again. And I briefed him on it a little bit, as though he needed any briefing. So that accounted for my very slight delay. I'm very happy to notice this morning that there's a very large attendance of commissioners. I'm, of course, very happy to participate in the ceremonies this morning, at which certificates of merit will be presented to departmental representatives who have completed special courses given by the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee, headed by Miss Rebecca Rankin, municipal reference librarian and chairman of this very important work. For me, and I am sure for all of you here, this event has a special significance, because it comes almost on the eve of the retirement of Miss Rankin, who has served her city ably and loyally for over 34 years. The success of New York City's records management program owes much to the guiding genius and to the zeal of Miss Rankin, who took on this assignment along with her many other duties as head of the Municipal Reference Library. The Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee has been at work since December of 1939, formulating policies for municipal archives and a records management program. The program itself has been given stimulus recently by an appropriation for equipment of a records center, which is now well established. The records center is located on the seventh floor of the Rhinelander Building at 238 William Street. You are cordially invited to visit the records center and see for yourself how effectively it is operating. Many of the city departments are cooperating in making the program a great success. These 31 departments, which are participating, now have increased their efficiency in handling their records, and actual savings and costs have resulted. As there is a real science in records management, training is required to put the program into effect. Therefore, the Division of Analysis of the Bureau of the Budget planned a series of in-service training classes for instruction and methods used in methods management. The commissioner of each department was requested to designate a person to serve as records officer for that department. Classes have been conducted by Mr. Herman Limburg for this purpose, once a week for eight weeks. He has been assisted by Julius Holtzman and Mr. James Katsouris, supervisor of records. In the past year, the mayor's Municipal Archives Committee has sponsored three series of these classes, and 33 persons have completed these instructions and will continue to carry forward the records management program. I, as mayor, am pleased to present these certificates of merit to the city employees, who, as records officers in the many departments, are helping in this important improvement in office management. I trust that, within the coming year, all departments of the city will be cooperating in this effort, and that next year, certificates will be awarded to more persons acting as records officers. Each one of you has helped, and you have done this extra service out of loyalty to your job and to the city. The mayor's Municipal Archives Committee might very well recommend to the Civil Service Commission that extra points be given in the Civil Service ratings of the departmental records officers. Ms. Rankin, will you please call the names of the records officers? Mr. Marr, Department of Housing and Buildings. Mr. Daniel Marr. Mr. Marr. Mrs. Francis Lyons, Domestic Relations Court. The ladies and gentlemen, whose names are being called now, are among the 33 department records officers who are receiving these awards of merit and are coming up from various places here in the mayor's reception room of City Hall. And, of course, the applause is greeting their arrival up in front of the microphone to receive these awards. Mr. Marr. Mr. Morris Cohen, City Register. Mr. Thomas J. O'Brien, Department of Markets. Mr. Joseph M. Walsh, Department of Corrections. Mr. Joseph M. Walsh, Department of Corrections. Mr. Marr. Mr. Marr. Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph M. Walsh, Department of Corrections. Mr. John H. Mr. John H. Travers, Department of Finance. Mr. John H. Travers, Department of Finance. Mr. John H. Mr. John H. Mr. Edward F. Thank you very much. Mr. Edward F. Mr. Edward F. Mr. Edward F. Thank you very much. Mr. Edward F. Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph M. Walsh, Department of Corrections. Thank you very much. Mr. John H. Mr. John H. Mr. clearly is a interesser right now. Mr. Weinstein. Mr. He kinds of íe-11 and a Mr. Monroe Spiegel, Borough President's Office of Manhattan. Mr. John J. Brennan, Chief Medical Examiner. Mr. Frank Hughes, Department of Finance. Mr. Sidney Solomon, Board of Water Supply. Mr. Theodore S. Wecker, Department of Parks. Sergeant Oliver Frederick, Police Department. Mr. Frank Petrucci, Department of Health. Mr. Joseph A. Coyle, Tax Department. Mr. Charlotte M. Meyer, Department of Purchase. Mr. Francis W. Normoyle, Borough President of Richmond. Mr. Francis W. Normoyle, Borough President of Richmond. Mr. Robert R. Swend, Comptroller's Office. Mr. John Joyce, Borough President of Queens. Mr. Robert W. Brady, Comptroller's Office. Mr. Jack Feldman, Department of Public Works. Mr. Seymour Weisletheer, Department of Correction. Mr. William Cesario, Department of Public Works. Mr. William Cesario, Department of Public Works. Ms. Hannah Weis, Board of Estimate, Bureau of Retirement and Pensions. Mr. G. L. Athanasio, Department of Marine and Aviation. Mr. Arthur V. Horn, Municipal Civil Service Commission. Mr. Walter L. Pizetowski. Mr. Walter L. Pizetowski. Mr. William H. Rocker, Municipal Civil Service Commission. Mr. Francis A. Rubenstein, Borough President of Brooklyn. And Mr. David O'Connor, Board of Estimate Bureau of the Secretary. Mr. May I take a minute to ask them all to come forward? Mr. Edward Powers. Mr. He wasn't paying. Mr. Shall we have time for a picture or do you have to run? Mr. Well, I haven't finished. Mr. Well, then you finish. Mr. You want a picture of all the award winners? Mr. Yes, I'll do it later. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms. Rankin, who has served as chairman of the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee since 1939, is retiring on June 30th. Mr. Therefore, I have requested Mr. James Katsaris, who has been her assistant for 26 years, and who now holds the position of supervisor of Municipal Archives and Records Center, to act as chairman of the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee. Mr. I've made that designation on the recommendation of Ms. Rankin. Mr. The following city officials have served with Ms. Rankin as members of the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee, and I should like to take this opportunity of thanking each and every one of them for their valuable contributions. Mr. Abraham D. Beam, director, Bureau of the Budget. Mr. John J. Bennett, chairman of the City Planning Commission. Mr. William M. Allard, director, Bureau of Real Estate. Mr. Dennis M. Hurley, Corporation Counsel. Mr. Lewis Orgel, City Register. Mr. Samuel W. Rainbow, chief Bureau of Municipal Investigation and Statistics. Murray W. Stand, city clerk. Frederick H. Zermullen, commissioner, Department of Public Works. I want to particularly, on this occasion, congratulate Ms. Rankin on her splendid service to the people of the City of New York for all of these years. In the past few weeks, we've had other illustrations of devoted service to the people of the City, not only to the departments that they serve, but devoted service to all the people of the City of New York that they represent. On occasions such as this, we sometimes feel sorry, sometimes we feel happy. I don't know which particular emotion to describe when, on occasions like on the recent projected retirement of Chief Riddell, who has served his city for so many years very effectively as Chief Engineer of the Board of Estimate. On the occasion of the retirement of Mr. Van Naim, as Secretary of the Retirement System. Recently, on the retirement of Tom Patterson as Director of the Budget. We've had so many examples of devoted service to the people of the City. Nobody ever grudges a City employee who has rendered that kind of service to go on and do what he or she feels like on retirement. Many of them wait too long. We have the example, the unfortunate example of Tom Patterson. We've had the recent terrible tragedy of Arthur Sheridan, who was the Commissioner of Borough Works, up in the Borough of the Bronx for a great number of years, and whose funeral was held this morning. Really, before his retirement actually became effective. So that, I as Mayor, Ms. Rankin, on this occasion, want to thank you for the service that you have rendered to all the mayors of the City of New York whom you have served. Particularly, I wish to thank you for the splendid cooperation you have given to me for the six and a half years that I have been in City Hall. And particularly, during the period of time I have been Mayor of the City of New York, I wish to thank you personally, to thank you on behalf of all the people of the City of New York, and to hope for you great happiness in your retirement. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. As a return request, Ms. Rankin would like to have a picture taken with all the award winners, so if you step forward, we'll do that now. By transcription, you have been listening to the awarding of certificates of merit by the Mayor's Municipal Archives Committee and Mayor Vincenarum Pelletere to 33 Department Records Officers, transcribed earlier today for broadcast at this time. This has been a public service feature of your city station. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. this with the Digital katyl baja Fleming a full-time project and has now taken astandard möchte that it has found itsuckle toutes photosubestand. and we encourage you to to choose to this credential to declare a science as a Falls Church of New York State procesee, this is howulars we are involved in our working profession. This capacities are completely governmental and beneficial treated to LOUs,