This is London calling North America. This week, MacDonald Hastings discusses the whys and wherefores of two current controversial topics in Britain. This is MacDonald Hastings from London. It's pleasant to be able to say for once that what people are chiefly talking about in their leisure moments in Britain this month has nothing to do with politics and is only concerned indirectly with the global problems of the times. Politics are out after the excitement of the reshuffle of government ministers a few weeks ago because Parliament is still in recess and most of the politicians are anxious for a quiet time until the flag goes up again over Westminster Tower, the signal that Parliament is in session again early next week. Meanwhile, gentler topics prevail. Going round the town and the countryside this week, I amused myself for scribbling down on a scrap of paper the red back of my clothes ration book as a matter of fact. I amused myself noting down the topics I heard people talking about. Top of the conversational list in London among men as well as women, curiously enough, was still the long skirt controversy. Even the latest threat of Sir Stafford Cripps that the price of cigarettes may be taxed up to well over the dollar for twenty, even that prospect didn't arouse such emotions as the question as to whether or not women should wear skirts longer. Not that there's really any question about it. Whatever any King Canute may say, women's skirts are going to be longer as surely as the tide comes in. You can see the evidence of it already in the London streets. But women like to think they have some choice in the matter. And fashion is one subject on which men can never learn to mind their own business. Sir Stafford Cripps, for instance, who's a very shrewd politician, but no fashion plate himself. Sir Stafford Cripps hasn't been able to resist putting his clumsy male foot into it by castigating the new fashion as idiotic. And the solemn correspondence columns of the London Times have been sizzling with irate letters from elderly professors writing from the cobwebbed Athenaeum club. The Athenaeum club, that's the man's club in London, of which it was said that the news of the battle of Waterloo was so startling that even members who hadn't been formally introduced to each other said good afternoon on the stairs. Members of the Athenaeum, members of the Athenaeum, the generals, Oxford, Dons, members of the House of Lords, they've all been getting red in the face telling the editor of the Times that the longer skirts ought to be stopped. It's a repetition exactly what was said when skirts became shorter in the early twenties. The men are opposing the change in fashion because men, especially English men, object to any change on principle. The women of Britain are going about with worried faces for a different reason. Their problem is how to find the clothes coupons, how to find the materials to follow the trade. I caught my wife the other day searching anxiously among the frocks in her wardrobe to see if any of them had a hem long enough to let down. Meanwhile, the British Board of Trade, which is responsible for the allocation of textiles, the British Board of Trade is fighting a desperate rear-guard action in the cause of keeping skirts short. The British film companies have been asked to keep the carves of their stars in full view. The wholesalers and the dress trade have been invited to cooperate. At one tumultuous meeting in Whitehall, the experts of the Board of Trade, all men of course, they actually suggested that if women in Britain stuck to short skirts long enough, in time the fashion would come round again. The Board of Trade is losing the battle. The dressmakers in London are already finding ways of making dresses with longer skirts without using extra material. All that's happening is that women are going to get less to wear on top to make up for what goes in down below. Second only to the controversy over the long skirt is another controversy which has been going on in more highbrow circles for some time now. A controversy about the cleaning and restoration of some of the famous paintings in the National Gallery of London. The row started when a group of distinguished academic painters in London got together and issued a statement to the press that the curators of the National Gallery were systematically ruining some of the world's greatest masterpieces. Works by Rembrandt, Rubens, Rubens, and others, they were ruining them by attempts at restoration. Their case was that in removing the grime of centuries, the restorers were also scraping off the brushwork of the masters themselves. The report sent a shudder through the artistic world. But like Brer Rabbit, the curators of the National Gallery laid low and said nothing. It seemed as if they didn't care. But in the following months they began to assemble the cleaned pictures for exhibition. They collected a mass of photographic evidence. They half cleaned some pictures and left the rest dirty so that the experts could compare them. Then last week a critical and anxious posse of experts and press people were invited to the gallery to have a look. I can only describe the experience as an artistic sock in the jaw. World famous pictures which one had come to regard as compositions in shades of brown, earth colour, they appeared on the walls of the gallery in rich, fresh colours. Cobalt blues, strong reds, bright green, canary yellows, and we realised that we were looking at some of the world's masterpieces for the first time as they looked when they left the painters' hands. In some cases as much as 500 years ago. Generations of grime and fogged brown varnish had been cleaned away. The mosty colours which we'd all come to associate with the old painters had gone. One realised that the real colours they'd painted in were as bright as the sky and the fields and the blush on a dairymaid's cheeks. Unanimously the critics went away praising what's perhaps the most remarkable feat of restoration in any gallery in the world. What the academicians are saying now who protested about the cleaning work I don't know. But it's significant that they were nearly all elderly painters. And it's interesting to observe that the painters who have gone into print praising the exhibition of the cleaned pictures all belong to the younger British school. And I think there's no doubt that the young men are right. The cleaning of the pictures is a triumphant success. And the ordinary public who may not know much about painting, but who for all that have an instinctive sense of the fitness of things. The ordinary Londoners are all telling each other this week that they must go to the National Gallery to see how much better the pictures are. The result will probably be that the cleaning of the world's masterpieces will now be carried out on a wider scale than ever. And we shall probably have some more artistic surprises like that one from Amsterdam when they cleaned Rembrandt's picture known as the Night Watch. When the picture was restored it was discovered that Rembrandt hadn't painted the picture as a night scene at all. When the dirt was removed it turned out that the painting was a scene in bright sunlight with a blue sky. The picture ought to have been called the day watch. Well, those are the two chief things that people are talking about this week in London. In the countryside people are concerned about a matter of more practical interest. The price which game is fetching in the open market. October in the English countryside is the month appointed for the start of the pheasant shooting season. And up to the war every big estate had gamekeepers rearing thousands of pheasants a year in the woods for the sport of shooting. And a very expensive sport it was too in Britain. There used to be a country saying about pheasant shooting, Up goes a guinea, that's a pound and one shilling, Up goes a guinea, bang goes tuppence, down comes half a crown. A guinea was the cost of rearing the pheasant, tuppence was the price of the cartridge to shoot him, And half a crown, fifty cents, was the average price that a pheasant made in the poultry market. Since the war all pheasant rearing has come to an end. And what birds? There are wild birds fending for themselves. So the cost of a pheasant is nothing. On top of that, this year the wartime controlled price on game has been lifted. Up to last year pheasants were controlled at about two dollars each. Now, anybody is permitted to sell them at the best price they can get. And as a result, the selling price of a pheasant in Britain has jumped to thirty shillings, six dollars. The country people can't believe it. And they're repeating to each other a variation of the old saying. Now it's up goes nothing, bang goes fourpence, the current price of the cartridge, and down comes thirty bucks. The result of course is that no pheasant can regard itself as immune from gun or catapult at any time of the day or night. The gamekeepers are quite desperate to know how they can keep off the poachers. And although there are a lot of pheasants about at the moment, I'll be surprised if there are many left by the time we get to Christmas. People with their own shooting rights are making quite absurd sums of money, selling not only legitimate game like pheasants, partridges, rabbits, pigeons, hares, but also almost anything with feathers on them. The dealers have got a market for anything. One farmer assured me that he'd been paid nearly fifty cents for a hawk. Personally, I'd pay a dollar just to see somebody eat a hawk. It's not of course that people are hungry. We still get all we need to eat. The explanation is that everybody is bored with the lack of variety in the ordinary ration diet. So there's a market for almost anything which a man can bring down with a gun. Rooks, small waterfowls, seagulls, even things like blackbirds and starlings. Well, I seem to have talked myself a long way from where I started this week with the long skirt. But it's that sort of a week in Britain. It's the betwixt and between time between the fall and the fairly grim prospects of this winter. This week for the first time there's a chill in the air. People are putting on their overcoats and beginning to snuffle with the seasonal colds in the head. In the coming months I fear there'll be many solemn things to talk about. But for the moment we're not taking ourselves too serious. We've got a certain amount of coal in the cellars. There's the long skirt controversy to argue about. There's the exhibition of the restored pictures of the National Gallery to look at. And there are pheasants on sale in the shops at a price. Thanks to the fine autumn weather the farm work is well ahead. Most of the winter sowing and ploughing is done already. And there are still a few more weeks left in which if we've saved up the petrol we can still do a little pleasure of motoring. You've been listening to MacDonald Hastings talking in the series London Letter. This is the British Broadcasting Corporation. Doctor's bill per patient in VA hospitals comes only to $1.47 a day. Doctor Paul R. Hawley, Medical Director of the Veterans Administration, has disclosed. And this average, Doctor Hawley pointed out, is computed on the basis of medical costs in VA general medical and surgical hospitals, which are the most expensive to operate. In tuberculosis hospitals the cost is only $0.88 a day. And in mental hospitals, $0.36 a day. Doctor Hawley stressed the fact that quality rather than economy is the chief objective of the VA's medical service. It added that the same factor which gives quality also promotes economy, namely the VA's policy of training resident doctors in its hospitals. News item two, veterans to get preference and sale of war housing. The federal government owns 160,000 units of war housing which it is going to sell to citizens. These units are permanent homes, not the temporary types that were constructed for the duration of the war only. Under the regulations of the Housing and Home Finance Agency, the key to the sale is promotion of home ownership, with first preference to veterans. First preference goes to World War II veterans, now living in units and who intend to continue occupying them. Second preference goes to other veterans who intend to buy and live in these units. Third in preference are non-veterans now living in units to be sold. The sale will be handled by the Public Housing Administration through its five regional offices. One of these offices is located in New York City. News item three, research center for heart disease set up in VA hospital. Last week, the VA announced that it had established a medical program utilizing atomic medical material in six of its hospitals throughout the country. Now comes the statement from the VA office that a center for intensive research into heart disease has been set up at the Mount Alto Hospital in Washington, D.C. Heart disease, in addition to being the most frequent cause of death among veterans, is an ailment which causes extensive hospitalization of veterans. All of the newest and safest methods of studying, diagnosing and treating heart disease will be employed at the Washington VA Hospital, conducted under the guidance of leading heart specialists. Now for some time, the Veterans Administration has been concentrating on informing veterans of the advantages of holding on to and reinstating their GI insurance. In this endeavor, the VA has had the cooperation of many individuals and organizations. One such organization, a leading veterans group, has come up with a plan that has been getting excellent results in informing veterans about reinstating lapped GI policies. This Veterans Post, located in Richmond, Virginia, has organized a 40-man committee to telephone each of its 300 members concerning their GI insurance. Members were provided with full information on their GI insurance problems and were given help in filling out the necessary VA forms for reinstatement purposes. Members of veterans groups might want to pass this idea along to their own posts. And so we conclude this week's edition of your Veterans News Roundup. And now, another news item of interest to everyone. Direct from the Village Nut Club comes the magic voice and piano of Dave Bowman, blending into a neat arrangement of Who. Who stole my heart away? Who makes me dream all day? Dreams I know can never be true. Seems as though I'll ever be blue. Who means my happiness? Who would I answer yes to? Well, you ought to guess who. Who knows one but you. Who knows one but you. What can I make you? You ought to guess. Hold your hand. How dare you? What's the idea? And it speaks much. How boleh have you! Good, then? As I follow again, thank you. Who knows about you. How nervous you are. What terrously? Under your brains of Alice house is HAS GREAT. You ought to go. Whatever she also thinks. I don't know. Dreams I know can never be true Seems as though I'll ever be blue Means my happiness, who? Would I answer yes to? Well, you ought to guess who? No one but you Very nice. Say, Dave, tell us about your next number. Well, Paul, in my estimation, it is one of the most beautiful songs ever written by Irving Berlin. A Russian Lullaby. Where the dreamy vulgar flows There's a lonely Russian throat Gazing tenderly down upon her knee Where a baby's brown eyes glisten, glisten Every night you'll hear the blues A Russian lullaby Just a little plaintiff tune When baby starts to cry Brought to you Brought to you Brought to you My baby Brought to you My baby Brought to you My baby Somewhere There may be A land that's free A land that's free For you and me A land that's free For you and me And a Russian globe A land that's free A land that's free For you and me And a Russian globe Brought to you My baby Brought to you My baby My baby My baby My baby Somewhere Where there may be A land that's free A land that's free For you and me And a Russian globe That is a beautiful song, Dave, and beautiful song Beautifully done, too I wonder what your piano artistry Holds in store for us today Will it be a Rachmaninoff prelude to St. Louis Or ain't misbehavin' a la Chaminade? Neither, Paul This week I'm staying strictly legit By doing a Chopin Nocturne, Opus 15, Number 2 And that's legit with us My jars Manいて Wait when I say Better to his kids The rose Of God But we have a seu Which lovely You're a dope To To To Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dave Bowman. And now let's say we listen to the mellow jesters as they play for us their own arrangement of the clarinet poker. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here's a program note. Keep that dial sitting right there, because what follows is more of the entertainment at its best. Yes, the V.A. series transcribing the stars of today in a 15-minute Here's to Veterans program. Thank you.