Good evening, this is Gabriel Pressman bringing you another edition of the WNYC Campus Press Conference. Every week, the editors of four college newspapers interview a prominent person in the news. During October, we're bringing you interviews with the candidates for United States Senator from New York. Tonight's guest is Corliss Lamont, the American Labor Party candidate. On hand to interview Mr. Lamont are Maureen O'Neill of the Hunter College Arrow, Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post, Erwin Chafkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University, and Jack Freeman of the Fordham College RAM. All right, panel members, are you ready to begin? Miss O'Neill has a question. Mr. Lamont, one of the main criticisms of the American Labor Party is that of the present administration in the Korean situation. Now, how do you think the next administration should conduct the Korean problem? Well, of course, I believe that the present administration should end the Korean War right away, and naturally then the next administration would do the same if it's still going on. I believe that the truce can be had tomorrow morning if the American government would be willing to put off the final settlement of the prisoner of war issue until after the ceasefire had been made, so that that particular issue, which has caused so much trouble, could be negotiated by four neutral nations, say, and we wouldn't keep on killing boys both on the American side and the other side in what I consider a perfectly useless slaughter. Mr. Chafkin, did you have a question? Well, I'm wondering, is Mr. Lamont satisfied, since he calls for an immediate ceasefire, that under the present tensions of that part of the world, that an adequate system of guarantees can be set up to make sure that if the ceasefire were done suddenly, that peace will remain? Well, remember that a ceasefire doesn't wake out all the tames of the final settlement. You have time to do that afterward, and I believe that with reason and compromise on both sides, a satisfactory agreement can be reached on all the pertinent issues. What I would like to see is the entire liquidation of the Far Eastern crisis, not only Korea, but for Mosa too, and finally with the admission of the new China to the United Nations and recognition by the United States. Mr. Deutsch. Mr. Lamont, I have a two-part question. One, do you think that Russia is directly aiding the North Koreans? That I would doubt very much. I believe that Russian materiel armaments has gone into Korea from that side. I would say that it's the Chinese who are aiding the North Koreans directly, but not the Russians. And the second part of that is that since the Russians are members of the United Nations, and the United Nations is fighting against North Korean aggression, do you feel that Russia is right in, well, let's say, boycotting this effort? Boycotting what effort? Well, the effort to stop the North Korean aggression, to put the war down in Korea. Well, I consider that the Russians who suggested this ceasefire negotiation in the first place are not boycotting anything at present in regard to the Korean situation. I happen to think that the North Koreans were responsible for the military business in Korea, and that they were guilty. But whoever started it, you see, whoever was guilty at the start, the thing to do, for heaven's sakes, now is to end it. Everybody recognizes that it's become a hopeless, useless struggle. Well, Mr. Deutsch's question was whether you believe, Mr. Lamont, that Russia should boycott the effort by the United Nations in Korea against the invaders. Is that right, Mr. Deutsch? Yeah, I was wondering that. Since Russia is a member of the UN, shouldn't they go along with the majority of the nations who are supplying men and troops to the Korean effort? Well, that is a pretty iffy question, since the whole sympathies of the Soviet government are on the other side. I think that the Soviet government in the first place should have supported the UN order for a ceasefire in the spring of, or rather summer, of 1950. Mr. Chapkin? I wanted to ask, Mr. Lamont, since you've said that the North Koreans were the, that started the aggression, do you think that they asked any advice and counsel, or to put it more affirmatively, as some of the charges took orders from Moscow in so doing? I would doubt that very much. In other words, to draw this question on a larger scale, you don't think that communism, as has been charged, is an international conspiracy directed from Moscow? Well, I would put it this way, Mr. Chapkin, that, in my opinion, the Soviet leaders and people still want to see world socialism established, but that they believe that every country should have its own indigenous radical movements or even revolutions, as took place in China itself, where Soviet Russia provided neither military nor material aid. And so it would go in every country of the world. There are native radical movements there, and if Moscow and Russia disappeared under the sea tomorrow morning, there would still be communist movements and radical movements of one sort or another carrying on in other countries. So that why there is undoubtedly consultation with the Soviet communists as the first communists who established a new socialist order. I don't see it as a tight Moscow-directed conspiracy with Stalin pulling all the strings everywhere, because these movements are bound up with native evils like poverty and ill-help, lack of education, and landlordism. Mr. Chapkin, do you want to follow that up? Do you think, then, that the North Koreans would have touched off their aggression had Moscow said no, that it's no more than asking advice of Moscow? Why, that's a question that I really can't answer, because I don't have the factual information. Mr. Chapkin, do you think that the government is a very important thing I don't...I'm very doubtful whether it was put in that form to Moscow. Will you give us permission to march south against the South Koreans? Well, I didn't mean quite that they had to ask permission, but suppose they asked, should we attack, as a matter of advice, to the first communist party? And the Politburo met and said, it is inadvisable. Do you think that without assurances of support, ultimately, that they would have attacked? Or, to put it another way, do you think the Politburo could have stopped the war had they decided to immediately? I am unable, I'm afraid, to answer that question. I would doubt whether the Politburo was either consulted indirectly or directly, or whether any such answers, as you suggest, were given or would be given by a Russian political organization to the North Koreans. I think that what you had in Korea was a very tense situation with the possibility of civil war starting almost every day, and that it broke out pretty much spontaneously, and I would doubt whether there was a Moscow direction behind it. In other words, to sum it up, you don't think that in Korea or anywhere else there's an international communist conspiracy directed from Moscow? I certainly would not put it that way. I would say there is international moral encouragement from Moscow and plenty of international propaganda, as there is on both sides in the Cold War, but not a tight pulling of strings and directed revolution. Mr. Freeman, we haven't heard from you yet. Yes, I'd like to ask you, Mr. Lamont, whether you believe that the Soviet Union constitutes a threat to the peace of the world. I don't think it constitutes a threat to the peace of the world, and in fact I think the American propaganda that a Soviet military attack is likely to take place against Western Europe or the United States itself is just so much bunk. This is the most pernicious myth of the present because it keeps the American people and all the Western peoples stirred up in an artificial state of frenzy and alarm. The Soviet Union does not work through military aggression. It believes that economic and social evil should be cured by communist parties in different countries, but those communist parties do not take military aid from the Soviet Union, and there's no desire on the part of Russia, so far as I can see, to start a Third World War or to send its armies across any boundary to establish a new socialist state. Mr. Deutsch. Well, Mr. Lamont, since you keep stressing the fact that there is no threat from the Soviet Union, but nevertheless that there is a threat to world peace, would you say then that this threat to world peace comes straight from the United States? I'm not willing to put all the blame on the United States because I think the Soviet Union has made a number of major mistakes in both domestic and foreign policy. I do think, however, that over the past few years, the United States has tended to turn a deaf ear and slam the door in the front of Soviet overtures for peace, and that's particularly true in regard to disarmament. The Soviets again and again have offered sound disarmament schemes, it seems to me, but we continue to pile up the armaments and throw away $60 billion a year down the drain into this type of wasteful expenditure. Mr. Chavkin. On the question of armaments, do you think that the Soviet Union is ready to admit a free inspection system? Well, I do indeed. That is, on the atomic control, the Soviet Union, as reported in the April 10th issue, 1952 of the New York Times, if you want to look it up, stated that there would be and could be continuous on-the-spot inspection of all atomic facilities in the Soviet Union, and that it would agree to UN inspectors coming in at any time to do this job. Now, that was a perfectly concrete proposal, and I think the United States should have accepted it and should have gone through with some kind of atomic control agreement. Did you ask whether this would be continuous inspection, Mr. Chavkin? Was that your question? Well, I meant in more general terms, the kind of inspection that would make foolproof disarmament possible, because the charges have been that the Soviet Union would never permit anything but a most limited scheme of inspection. Well, Mr. Lamont, was this agreement of the Soviet Union, was that to an inspection that would allow inspectors to come and go as they please and to have free reign to go all over the Soviet Union? Well, as I understand it, yes, so far as the inspection of atomic facilities is concerned. In fact, in your own World Telegram tonight, there is an article on the editorial page which gives this very much the same summary of the Soviet position. Mr. Deutsch, you've been anxious to ask a question in connection with this. Yeah, in connection with this. Don't you think that this Russian proposal is rather empty, if not ridiculous, considering the Iron Curtain? I'm using the phrase Iron Curtain advisedly, but in view of the restrictions that have been placed on allowing people and members of the press into the Soviet Union. Well, Mr. Deutsch, I don't think there's an iron curtain of that variety in the Soviet Union. You must remember that there are tremendous restrictions on travel on both sides. For instance, I can't leave the United States to go to Europe and to study in the Soviet Union because the American State Department won't give me a passport, and this has happened to thousands of American citizens. But in any case, so far as UN inspectors are concerned, going into the Soviet Union and government officials, they have been more or less free to go at any time so long as they are the authorized representatives of a foreign government. The Soviet government, no matter how bad it has been about keeping out travelers, statically lets in the authorized representatives of governments or the United Nations and would do so in an atomic control scheme. Miss O'Neill. Mr. Lamont, in reference to that article in the World Telegram, Mr. Dietz says, that these concessions made by the Soviet Union were part of an eight-point program which included demand for the removal of all foreign troops from Korea and the outlawing of the North Atlantic Treaty. Now, do you think that we can negotiate with the Soviet Union when they attach riders to their proposal? Well, I think that article gives the wrong impression. The various points may have been presented together, but they weren't tied up in one bundle so that the Soviet Union says you've got to ratify all of these eight points or we'll have none of them. That is nonsense. They made their atomic proposals, for instance, very concrete on the atomic question. And I believe that they provided a sound basis of discussion and that the atomic bomb is such a tremendous danger to all of us. It could ruin all of Western civilization and we should do everything possible to abolish it and come to an agreement with the Communist countries on it. I don't think we have gone far enough in that direction. Mr. Chapkin. I think Mr. Lamont's views on the disarmament question and the Soviet plan for disarmament are pretty clear. I'd like to ask a different aspect of the foreign policy question and that is, do you think there would have been any danger to the United States or any threat if France and Italy went communist back around 1948? No. Not of a military nature. I do not think that if France or Italy or England or the whole of Western Europe went communist there would be any slightest threat to the United States of a military nature. They would not ever attack the United States. Their opinion is that capitalism will collapse of its own momentum because of its own contradictions. And the very fact that Italy or France went communist because of the internal troubles in those countries would indicate that America eventually would go in the same direction. The communists do not work through military aggression. They have stood for peace from the very beginning. It is they who have been constantly attacked and not the other side. Mr. Chapkin, do you want to continue on that line? I want to follow that up with a question bringing us back to the United States. Mr. Lamont seems to imply that in the communist view a communist revolution is in the cards here in the United States. Is that also Mr. Lamont's view? I didn't imply that was the communist view. I implied that in a situation where capitalism may be breaking down the country may go socialist or what you call communist either through a revolution of some violent nature or through democratic procedures. Now I believe that in the United States if we ever go toward socialism or into socialism it can be through the peaceful parliamentary method. And so far as I know the communists in general in the United States have not advocated violent revolution and have been framed up frankly speaking under the Smith Act and sent to jail for something that they haven't even advocated. In other words you think that the communist leaders in this country are no danger to this country? I didn't say that either. I think there's very little danger to this country. I think the communist movement is so small and uninfluential here that there's very little danger from that source. I would catch and put into jail communists or anybody else on the basis of concrete specific actions violating our laws. But the prosecutions today are not of that variety. They are for teaching or conspiring to advocate something in the future. There is only speech or thought involved. And when we start to prosecute speech and thought we have violated the whole American tradition of civil liberties. In other words I don't want to take the questioning away from the questioners here but it's interesting to me. In other words you disagree with the Supreme Court decision upholding the Smith Act. Oh now oh certainly I disagree with it. Yes. With the American Civil Liberties Union incidentally. We think the Smith Act is unconstitutional and that the Supreme Court made a great mistake. And of course we agree with the dissenting opinions of Black and Douglas. Well Mr. Freeman you've been sitting back here cogitating. What have you come up with? Well I was a little disturbed by Mr. Lamont's answer about travel in the Soviet Union because I've spoken to several people who were in Russia the past few years on official business and they were allowed to view the official business of Russia or view the people of Russia through the social world of Moscow and they were never allowed to go beyond that except when they were watched very carefully. In fact if I remember apparently an ambassador the United States ambassador was sent home for complaining about the restrictions in Russia. Well on that matter of restricted travel in the Soviet Union I think it has been true of foreign officials. The Soviet Union is very afraid of foreign spies and recently of course we had a major general grove in the United States who went to the Soviet Union and kept a diary in which he put down all the nice targets which could be bombed as he traveled around the Soviet Union. This was a scandalous performance and he was finally court-martialed by the U.S. Army. But in any case so far as U.N. inspectors are concerned or foreign authorities foreign representatives who would come in they would as I understand it be permitted to travel wherever their duties took them though the Soviet Union as long as there's tension no doubt is going to make some restrictions on traveling around the Soviet Union. Well getting back to the some of the other issues of the campaign does do you have a question Mr. Deutsch? Yeah getting down to your own campaign Mr. Lamont I'd like to know since one of the major topics of discussion these days is where the funds are coming from for the various candidates I would like to know where your funds are coming from. Well I have an independent committee for my candidacy which is headed by I.F. Stone the brilliant columnist of the Daily Compass and a number of professors some from Columbia some from other universities they are raising a certain amount of money I have had some money sent in to me on a spontaneous basis from contributors and I'm also spending some money personally all this of course will be reported to the proper authorities at the proper time in line in line with this I'd also like to know what organizations and what newspapers are supporting you supporting me personally yeah well the chief one certainly is the Daily Compass the Daily Compass has come out with an editorial in favor of my candidacy for the U.S. Senate and so far as I know that is the only newspaper that is officially supporting me I wish there were more that still leaves out the organizations the organizations I'm afraid that no organization has officially come out in my favor that I know of as U.S. candidate for Senate from New York State there might be some cultural organization I mean aside from the American Labor Party or some student group I suppose which may be formed here and there but so far none has given me a boost of that kind Ms. O'Neill Mr. Lamont could you now tell us something about your qualifications for the United States Senator well I'd be glad to try to do that as modestly as possible Ms. O'Neill I believe that I could provide very strenuous and I hope intelligent opposition in Congress to the disastrous bipartisan policies which have led America down the path to a third world war and the violation all over the place of civil liberties I have been a student of public affairs and international relations and American-Soviet cooperation for many years and think that I am fairly well informed on the main issues that affect the welfare of the United States in a domestic and international sense and I think that on the floor of the Senate I could present these views and that even if you didn't agree with me you would like to have a little more opposition and criticism offered there Mr. Chapkin you have a question? Well on the matter of going to the Senate and voting on foreign policy questions you have said that you favor I believe immediate armament reduction to 1939 levels now in 1939 the United States was about in a short time to enter a world war and was caught somewhat unprepared however you think that there is no such danger today that's right I don't know where you got your dope but if you're mistaken I suggested an armaments budget of nine billion dollars in the United States which is the total U.S. budget of 1939 and I consider that more than enough for our defense at present but the 58 billions that Truman is asking for this year I consider perfectly absurd a waste of money and we ought to be spending that money for peaceful useful economic construction here in the United States for the permanent welfare of the American people We have time for one short question Mr. Deutsch Well I just wanted to know why the Liberal Party split off from the ALP I believe it was in 1944 and Mr. Lamont what do you say about the rumors that the ALP is communist dominated That's not a very short question I say that the rumors of communist domination are nonsense and that the Liberal Party people including Mr. Counts broke off because they became terrific red baiters and refused to collaborate in any way with communists and adopted the same bipartisan line of a military menace from Soviet Russia and a domestic menace from the communists I know you're all very anxious to ask a question at this point but we just don't have any time I'm sorry This has been another WNYC campus press conference Every week the editors of four college newspapers interview a prominent person in the news Tonight's guest was Corliss Lamont American Labor Party candidate for United States Senator from New York Here to interview Mr. Lamont were Maureen O'Neill of the Hunter College Arrow Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post Erwin Chafkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University Jack Freeman of the Fordham College Ram Next week we'll have another senatorial candidate as our guest This is Gabriel Pressman inviting you to join us then for the next edition of the WNYC campus press conference Thank you Thank you
