In addition to his assignment in the daytime, we will have him do something in the evening school. Either take instruction or act as an instructor in something. In other words, you feel that if we plan a complete education vocational training program for this man, he will be a worthwhile auto mechanic upon release. How about you, Dr. Fox? I feel that we do have opportunities for expressing the feelings or abilities of the inmates in the school at night through art. And we have a very fine art instructor who could give him an opportunity to express himself in that field. Well, has he any, uh, has he a wherewithal to take up artwork? Uh, it has been found that a great many people who never felt interested in art could express themselves graphically. And a great many, uh, men have done work which has been a credit to them after having, uh, tried their hand at art. In other words, you feel that, uh, a new type of vocation and new hobbies will open new fields of interest to this man and may help him straighten out his own attitude. Yeah, that's my feeling. Mr. Stone, haven't we forgotten all about the wife in this case? No, we'll reach that immediately. I just wanted to reach Mr. Mears and ask his opinion as to this man's change of vocations and so forth. Well, uh, Mr. Stone, at this point I think, uh, social services interest, uh, would be in seeing, uh, the man's wife, uh, to get her feelings in this matter, with reference to their relationship, especially on their marital level, and to see, uh, if she has an understanding into the reasons for this man's behavior. As you remember, he, uh, indicated that his home life became monotonous, and, uh, he was, uh, just tired of the hum and drum of going home and to work and so on. And had the wife, uh, probably been alert and understanding him how to make a home interesting, uh, he probably would not have looked for these outside interests. And it may be that the wife needs as much guidance and direction, uh, in this total picture as does the, the inmate. And our interest, uh, will be to determine that. And then if, uh, we feel that she does need it, uh, we will get in touch with, uh, Dr. Fox and have him to, uh, see the wife or either refer her to a mental hygiene clinic for, for treatment in this direction. In this direction. Has this man, uh, been a study, uh, study observer, uh, of his church? Well, uh, his church attendance has been irregular, and certainly, uh, we can have the, uh, Catholic chaplain, uh, contact the inmate, and, uh, see if he can reestablish that interest that he, uh, once showed in his religious activities. And it may be a source through which he may release some of his tensions and some of his, uh, immaturities and develop himself into the type of individual that, uh, we would hope to find. Uh, is there anything else medically in this case that, that might, uh, help us a bit, Dr. Farber? Well, there's nothing, nothing else medically. He's, he was examined and found fit for work. And he was brought to me with negative. In other words, here we have a man that just has a sort of a, uh, well, maybe he's perfectly normal. He has a sort of a queer quirk, leaves his home, leaves his children, takes money and takes up with another woman. Of course, here we will, we'll have, uh, educational trade training program planned for him. Now, Dr. Fox, can the psychiatrist offer him anything, uh, in the way of, uh, meetings with him that might help? Yes, uh, we feel that he should come under our care where he will receive adequate psychotherapy and give him an insight into his core, into the causes of his behavior. Is there anything else any member of the board would like to say? I'd like to ask Mr. Mears whether the, uh, uh, workup is complete. I have a suspicion that this man may drink. Is there anything in the record to show whether he's alcoholic or not? Uh, Dr. Pollins, he is not a chronic alcoholic, but he is, uh, an individual who, uh, drinks frequently. And, uh, it has never been of a detrimental nature to his adjustment as, uh, we measure our social standards. But, uh, it may, it might have been one of the things that, uh, caused him to spend money that he needed in other places to, um, to spend money that he spent in, uh, the various bars and grills and may account for his having met this, uh, beautician. And certainly if we can give him some insight into his, uh, drinking, we may alleviate one of the, uh, causative factors in this particular instance. And, uh, again, it goes back to the, uh, psychiatrist who will probably have to do some interpreting in this area for him. Yes, Dr. Pollins. Well, I was wondering whether that goes back to the same problem, uh, whether the cause of his drinking and the cause of his criminality is the same, or whether the drinking is apart from the criminality which has, uh, influenced it. Well, it may even be an escape, Doctor. I, I, I'm not a doctor. I'd like to ask Dr. Fox's reaction on that. I think it's, uh, uh, uh, the same, uh, the same cause is responsible for his drinking and for his, uh, stealing. And when, uh, we, uh, determine what is the underlying motive, we will be able to eliminate both and help this individual to adjust himself to society and become a responsible citizen. Well, what about this, uh, Alcoholics Anonymous, uh, movement, Dr. Fox? Do you think that, uh, uh... I, I don't, uh, I don't think that's quite right. I don't think Alcoholics Anonymous would enter into this at all, Dr. Pollins. Well, I'm... He's not a true alcoholic, isn't he? Well, I'm thinking of a follow-up program. If alcoholism is any factor in the case, I'm wondering whether he should be educated or suggested to attend some meetings after his release. Well, do you think it is a cause- uh, it is one of the important items in this case, Dr. Fox? I don't think it is. No, I think his, his drinking has been, uh, very infrequent and has never caused him to lose a job because of it, and he has always been able to maintain his, uh, good work record. It seems to me that this man needs more leisure time interest, too. If his home, his job, his children were not enough for him, perhaps he should have, uh, the opportunity to participate in an overall recreational program and, in that way, uh, try to interest himself in, in other activities that he can utilize outside. Now, at this time, I think, uh, uh, I think, uh, I should tie up the entire case. It seems to be the, uh, it seems to be the, uh, the complete, uh, agreement of the board that, number one, the institution make a recommendation to the court that the judge reconsider the sentencing of this man. The board seems to feel that he's not the type of an individual we wish to have in our institution because instead of helping him, we may hurt him. We feel he is not a true criminal and, therefore, could be helped more on the outside by mental hygiene clinics and so forth. Number two, if he stays in the institution, we feel that his vocation should be changed so that he would be able to get a job upon release, that he'd be assigned to the auto mechanics shop to take up auto mechanics, and also attend evening school to take related courses and courses that would stimulate him mentally. We also believe, and this is point three, that the psychiatrist in the institution should interview the wife and find out if she is a normal person. And if she is not, and perhaps has contributed to his, uh, wrongdoing, that she be referred to an outside clinic so as they can make their marriage, uh, more normal. We also believe, and this is point four, that this man should be recommended to see the institutional chaplain because he was an irregular member of his church. Perhaps his religion will help him. Number five, he is to be referred to the psychiatrist so that he will receive, uh, further treatment and help. Number six, that he be exposed to a varied leisure time program so that he might be able to interest himself in new hobbies that he can use outside. And number seven, because this man is a minimum security risk, that he would not require too close supervision in the institution. Number six, that leads us to theHayd vs. Boyd, return to society. For return to society, your city station presents at this time the second in its public service series presented in cooperation with the Department of Correction, Peter F. Amorosa, Commissioner. For each of the 100,000 convicts sentenced in New York City each year, there is a meeting of the Classification Board of the Department of Correction. This branch of the Correction Department is composed of expert medical officers, psychiatrists, psychologists, penologists, educators, prison officials, and religious counselors of the department. Each offender is discussed in terms of profitable planning for his penitentiary term and toward his return to society. Each aspect of his background is evaluated on the basis of reports presented to the board. Every convict is considered as a person in need of readjustment, as one who needs guidance and help, like this one. I can't blame that girl. She didn't know where the money was coming from. She didn't even know I was married. Before I met her, I guess I was what you'd call a model husband and father. But that girl. I tried to give my kids a good home like the one I was raised in. I've always had a job, cashier. Graduated from commercial high. Always made enough to keep the home going. Had the same job with the company five years. Agent and cashier. Altogether, I took about $1,700 from the company. For that girl. Well, after they had me arrested, I took up auto mechanics at a trade school and got a job with a company that'll take me back after my year in prison's up. I'd like to do clerical work while I'm in. I figured I've learned my lesson. I'm 34. I'm 34. I'm 34. To make recommendations for the offender whose case you just heard, the Department of Correction Classification Board, in radio session, has before it medical, social, and psychiatric reports as prepared by correction department personnel. Today's classification board is composed of Norman M. Stone, Executive Secretary, Captain Jerome Adler, Chairman in Charge Classification, Rikers Island, George E. Mears, Probation Officer, Kings County Court, formerly Director of Social Service of Rikers Island, Dr. Harold R. Fox, Psychiatrist of Rikers Island, Bertram Pollins, Executive Secretary, Psychological Consultant Agency, New York City, formerly Psychologist for Rikers Island, Dr. M. D. Farman, Medical Officer, Rikers Island Hospital, Herman K. Spector, Director of Education, Department of Correction. And to preside at the radio meeting of the Classification Board is the Executive Secretary of the Correction Department, Norman M. Stone. Mr. Stone. Mr. Mears, will you highlight this case? Mr. Stone, I think we have been given a rather adequate analysis of the crime as interpreted by the inmate. In view of this, I think our interest at this point should be to try to learn why a man, after about 13 years of apparent satisfactory married life, should suddenly find himself losing interest in his home, his family, and the responsibilities of a good husband. We must also try to understand what this prison experience will mean to him. What effect will it have on his future adjustment? What can we gain, at least what can he gain from this experience? How serious is his myopic condition? And what can we do to correct it? What are his chances of placement upon release in the aviation sheet metal field, or should we endeavor to reestablish his interest in clerical work, where he has experienced and has been fairly successful? And I think with this point in mind, we might be able to help this individual make an adjustment. Mr. Spector, would you take the case up from here? Our previous analysis seems to indicate that the man has been fairly successful in a clerical job up to this time. However, because of his crime, they may not be willing to take him back. What type of trade training, if any, could he take part in? I believe that we must recognize the very bitter experience which this man is undergoing while incarceration. On the other hand, we must apply equal credit and give him record for the work that he did while he was at the high school and his previous employment, which lasted for five consecutive years. To make a further break in that type of attitude and that type of engagement would be working a terrible hardship upon him. I therefore believe that he should continue with his special assignment in the correctional clerical work. Mr. Stone, may I interrupt a minute? Yes, Dr. Palms. We're going off on a tangent in this case and assuming that he belongs here and taking for granted that the court did the proper thing. The first thing that strikes me about this case, however, is the fact that he never should have been sentenced to the penitentiary to begin with. He's a first offender. He's 34 years old. He definitely does not have any anti-social or criminal patterns to put him in and spend the year in a penitentiary where, in spite of all the modern advantages, he will still associate with many hardened criminals. From my standpoint, his stay in this penitentiary is likely to do him more harm than good. And it seems to me that we ought to go on record and recommend to the judge that he ought to reconsider the case and resentence him that he would be a suitable subject for probation, supervised parole of some type. Mr. Mears, from your past experience, what do you think this man's chances are of having his case appealed and not serving any time in an institution? Isn't it a little too late for this? Mr. Stone, I'm not a lawyer, but I do feel that there is a possibility of his being brought back and his sentence reconsidered. I don't know how technically correct I am, but certainly I feel that probation would have been a much better tool in this instance than commitment. However, we do have the man in prison now, and our concern is what shall we do with him while he's here, and what can we do to make his life at least approximate, normal living in this controlled situation? Unfortunately, in this case, the man is not on parole, so we cannot appeal to the parole authorities. But I'd like to know how the remainder of the board feels as to whether we should recommend to the court to have this case reopened. How do you feel, Dr. Clark? Well, Mr. Stone, before we go to that, I would like to fight for one thing that I want, and that is let's consider some of his personality difficulties. He is a man who's adjusted, and I think the psychiatrist might be able to give us some insight into this picture. Mr. Stone, I'm in full agreement with Dr. Pollins in regard to where this man should spend his time. I feel that he's not a proper or suitable case for an institution of our kind, and that he should be put on probation and assigned to some mental hygiene clinic where he would be treated by a psychiatrist and because he has never shown any signs of psychopathic personality behavior. He has had a good school record, he's had a good work record, he's been a good husband, and he's never come in contact with a Lord prior to this instant offense. And I feel that there's some deep-seated conflict, which at this time has manifested itself in his aggression towards society, and it manifested itself in his anti-social behavior at the time he stole this sum of money impression. Well, Dr. Fox and Dr. Pollins, both of you might be right. However, we happen to be a classification board, and we serve in an institution of the Department of Corrections. We can recommend to the court that they reopen the case, however, that I believe is in the province of the inmate himself in which he has to hire a lawyer and appeal his case. We cannot take any action on that. We know now that this man is in our institution. He's 34 years old. Legally, he has committed a crime. Therefore, we have him on our hands. We do want to help him. Now, what shall we do for him to make his future life more worthwhile? May I hear from you, Captain Adler? What do you think of his chances? Or, let's suppose you start, Captain Adler, and tell us. Well, from his past history, I don't consider this man a custody risk. As far as an assignment is concerned, we could assign him any place without worrying. His past work record has been all clerical work. He is a stenographer. The only type of work that would benefit him here, I believe, is clerical work to maintain his skill at stenography so that he will have that at hand when he's discharged. Another problem he will have when he's discharged is the reconciliation with his family. I believe he should be referred to the chaplain of his faith to try to see his wife and affect this reconciliation. Now, that is our most important part. That is what we have to play in this individual case. We have this man here. He will spend about eight months in this institution. Now, what intelligent program can we plan for him so that when he returns he will live a worthwhile life? I'd like to hear from the psychiatrist. Dr. Fox, what sort of treatment do you feel that we can offer him in the institution? I feel that since he is going to remain with us for the maximum time of his sentence he should be seen by the psychiatric department where he should receive psychotherapy and he should be while he's handled in the department treated like anyone who should be treated outside just like an average citizen and we should never mention his antisocial behavior to him because I think that that is something which he had no control over and should never be held against him. In other words, do you feel that there is no specific psychiatric treatment that the man needs while in the institution? Well, Mr. Stone, that's, I don't want to take it from the doctor but I think at this point you're putting the doctor on the spot to ask him for a pointed answer. What I do feel is that we do have here an accidental offender which in all sense of the word he needs no definite supervision as we think of in terms in prison but what I do think we need to understand is why a man who had gotten along 13 years with his wife and children should all of a sudden become involved with another woman and forget his response to the point. Let's see. One minute, Dr. Pollams. Now, we know that people who come to prison have certain underlying causes that cause this type of behavior that we do not recognize as legal. Now, if we can find the cause of this behavior then we might be able to plan something intelligent for him. How do you feel about that, Dr. Pollams? That's exactly the point I wanted to stress. If you recall, I was the first one to emphasize the fact that he is not a true criminal and does not belong in the penitentiary. However, I don't agree with Mr. Mears' statement that he is an accidental offender. I don't think there is any accident here at all. If you look at his record, you find that he was arrested once before for impersonating an army officer. Now, that gives us a clue as to his makeup. He is evidently an immature individual, an emotionally immature individual, who has a repressed desire for something more glamorous than he is himself. And for that reason, he impersonates army officers and runs off with manicurists instead of staying home with his wife. Now, in order to get at the basic cause of his difficulties, it seems to me that some substitute glamour should be afforded him to give him a chance to express these creative tendencies that he has. His life's work as a clerk certainly hasn't given him any opportunity to express these creative tendencies in him. Perhaps if we teach him a trade of some kind, that is within the realm of his ability and intelligence, that may serve as an outlet. Another point I'd like to emphasize, Mr. Stone, if you excuse me a minute, is the fact that I think it's very important in this case to see that he doesn't get worse in the institution. And for that reason, we ought to assign him to a department where he is least likely to come in contact with hardened and bittered antisocial individuals. Perhaps an assignment of a confidential nature as a clerk in some office is indicated here. Then would you say that his type of work was not satisfying enough during his past years to take care of, take all his attention? Hey, let's see, we'll have to do this over anyway. His emotional needs, I would say. No. I wanted to cut this now, tell you why. Suppose we start over. No, I think we should do it over. Because I started the wrong at the beginning. I didn't get it right. That's why I felt it. But it'll let us have a little leeway. You would come in on the my office. Let's get it planned out.