There will be 28 medals awarded today to those who are fortunate enough to be here to accept the medals, and there will be one posthumous medal awarded for the officer who has made the supreme sacrifice. We like to state on these occasions that even if every vestige of the foolish criminal, the crazy guy with a gun, or the other situations that arise, if all crime vanished from the city of New York, the element of emergency would not vanish from the police or fire departments because of the great emergencies that occur in our city. And very often the supreme sacrifice is the line and the act of duty required of the policeman. And now they're addressing the square for the anthem. So we saw the symphol that is situated in during the semester and facts from being specially scared to go to the Platz. Thank you. Thank you. Now our chairman, Police Commissioner Murphy. Will everybody remain standing while the invocation is delivered by the Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph A. McCaffrey, our police chaplain. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen. Amen. O Almighty and Eternal God who has dominion over all mankind, look down with favor upon these distinguished members of our department. Consider how in their lives they have been unselfish and brave and have done thy will and bidding in all things. Grant that their example of devotion to duty may be an inspiration to all the members of our department. Continue to raise up in our department, O Almighty and Eternal God, a stalwart body of men, consecrated to what is right and just and fearing thee alone. And may all that we ever do or ever hope to accomplish as a police department redound to the greater honor and glory of God. Amen. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, amen. Reverend Pledging, Mr. Deputy Commissioner, Honorary Commissioners, Honorary Commissioners, Officers and gentlemen of the Department, Your families and friends. Since I have been Commissioner, I have had a great many pleasant and happy moments. Hardly a week goes by when I am informed of some unusual act of bravery on the part of one or more members of the force. Today, I think, is the proudest day that I have had since I have been Commissioner. I know it's the happiest day. Today, I think, is the proudest day that I have been here today. Because it is my honor and privilege to publicly read the citations for 29 men who have far and beyond the call of duty, exemplified to the people of the city, what we are made of. This practice of metal day in the police department has existed since at least the consolidation in 1898. I believe that nothing endears the police department to the people of the city, or the country for that matter, than the public bestowal of honor upon men who, in complete disregard of their own personal safety, and thinking only of the safety of the citizens that they are sworn to protect, and without a moment's hesitation or thought of themselves or their families, which they have every right to think of, they instinctively act for the public good. I think it's the repetition of acts like these men have portrayed during the year 1950, that will continue throughout the years to come, be a source of great pride, not only to the men who are the recipients of the honors, and not only to the men who are in the uniform of our force, but to all the people, that this force, that this police department, is by far the greatest police department in the world. And now that the mayor has been able to break away from a very important Board of Estimates meeting, I'm going to ask him to come forward here and present these medals to these brave men while I read the citations. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor. two men who had assaulted, robbed, and kidnapped the proprietor of a butcher shop and the victim's automobile. Upon overtaking the stolen car, the bandits opened fire and mortally wounded the officer. The two bandits then fled on foot but were apprehended by other officers and a discarded revolver was recovered. The two accomplices were subsequently arrested and another gun used in the shooting was recovered. Now the photographers are demanding a special picture of Mrs. Loretto. Department metal wanted to Detective John A. Christensen. Mr. Christensen was a patrolman attached to the 5th precinct at the time of the Congress. While off-duty in civilian clothes heard shouts of holder and observed the man with an automatic pistol in his hand fleeing from the scene of an armed holder. During the robbery, the proprietor had been shot and seriously wounded. Patrolman Christensen ordered the gunman to halt and when the gunman turned and fired a shot at the officer, he retained the fire. Patrolman Christensen emptied his revolver with the gunman and subsequently disarmed him of an automatic pistol from which all the shots had been fired. One of the gunman's shots had passed through the officer's overcoat and four of the officer's shots had taken effect, mortally wounding the gunman. The police combat crossed to Patrolman John C. McCauley. While on meal period, Patrolman McCauley heard a shot fired in the street. Rushing to the street, he observed a man fire a shot into the body of a woman lying at the gunman's feet. He thereupon ordered the man to surrender, but instead the gunman fired an ineffective shot at the officer. The officer then engaged in a fierce struggle with the man during which the thug placed his gun in the stomach of the officer and pulled the trigger three times, and each time the gun was fired. Patrolman McCauley then shot his adversary five times, mortally wounding him. The Lieutenant's Benevolent Association Medal for Valor by Acting Captain Joseph Regan to Detective James C. Hoey. and the Guardian Association of the Police Department Medal for Valor by Sergeant Mangrum to Detective George Buckhole. While returning from the scene of an investigation, the officers observed an altercation in which one of the participants was armed with a pistol. Disregarding their command to drop his weapon, the gunman whirled at them discharging a shot in a direction without effect. Detective Hoey retaliated with three shots, mortally wounding the assailant. The deceased had a long criminal record. These men already have several citations pinned on their breasts, and the photographers are very anxious now to get a little picture with the mayor. And the mayor is posing now, and there's just a little delay while he shakes hands and has a pleasant little talk, and the cameras are clicking in order that this extra citation will be added to the many that they carry now on the breast of their uniform. The cameras are still clicking, and Commissioner Murphy will read the next citation in just a moment. The men salute and return to their places. Commissioner Murphy. The Sergeant's Benevolent Association Medal for Valor, be awarded by Acting Lieutenant Sheridan, to Patrolman Basil G. Minnacacus, who at the time was attached to the 28th Precinct. And the Traffic Squad Benevolent Association Medal, be awarded by Patrolman Burke, to Patrolman Louis M. Palumbo, who at the time of the occurrence was also attached to the 28th Precinct. While on Radio Motor Patrol, observed a man who answered the description of a man wanted on an alarm for armed robbery. As the officers alighted from the car and approached the suspect, he drew a loaded revolver, pointed it at Patrolman Palumbo, and pulled the trigger, but the gun misfired. The suspect then fled. After Patrolman Palumbo fired a warning shot, the suspect turned and fired at the officers as they gave chase. During the pursuit, the officers fired four shots and finally overtook and disarmed him after a struggle and placed him under arrest. Both these men have previous citations and the cameramen are asking for some pictures. Vincent Finn of the Police Department is busy handing out the new medals, which are further decoration to their bravery and their valor in service to the City of New York. One photographer is specially arranging a picture now and he's quite presumptuous in grabbing the mare by the arm and the two officers and getting things just the way he wants them. That's a good idea because we can recapture the scene through his efforts in the picture later on. And now, Commissioner Murphy in the next citation. The Dennis J. Mahoney Medal for Valor of the Detectives Endowment Association by Detective Hartley to Detective John O'Neill. While on duty and in the course of investigating a cabaret located at 23rd, 23 West 8th Street, Manhattan, Detective O'Neill and his partner noted the disturbance among the patrons. Through an opening in the portieres leading to the dressing room, Detective O'Neill observed a gun in the man's hand and immediately sensed that the holdup was in progress. Just then, the holdup man emerged from the dressing room and ordered the patrons into another room. Detective O'Neill, even though covered by the gunmen and with the patrons directly in the line of fire, maneuvering himself into an advantageous position, drew his revolver and exchanged shots with one of the members of the holdup trial. In the melee that ensued, Detective O'Neill, two entertainers, one patron and one holdup man were wounded. The holdup frustrated, the three bandits endeavored to escape were apprehended by other members of the force. The three holdup men were subsequently identified as being implicated in 28 holdups in the city. Detective O'Neill shows some of the results of his injury and wound at the time of this holdup in 8th Street. And a special picture is now being taken by the mayor, the detective and the police officer. Commissioner Murphy. The Patrolman's Benevolent Association Medal for Valor by Patrolman Carton, awarded to Patrolman Frank LaForge, Jr. Amid Commander làuss buffalo PI The officers were informed that the perpetrator had escaped by way of the fire escape. Patrolman LaForge ascended the fire escape in pursuit of the perpetrator, while the other officer proceeded to the roof by stairway. stairway. On the roof, Patrolman LaForge observed a man attempting to escape with a gun in his hand. The officer ordered him to stop and fired a warning shot in the air. The man stopped and fired a shot at the officer who retained the fire. The gunman then threw his weapon at the officer who withheld further fire and approached the man. A short struggle ensued close to the edge of the roof. At this point, the assisting officer appeared. The man was subdued and placed under arrest. He was identified by the wounded persons as their assailant. Officer LaForge even has previous citations. Police Square Club being Medal of Valor. Now the Police Square Club Medal. By Sergeant Ringwald. Mr. Murphy. Awarded to Patrolman Alex M. Gurnett and the Police Anchor Club Medal for Valor by Acting Lieutenant Burrell to Patrolman Lewis Yahr. While on patrol duty after being informed of an armed holdup at a delicatessen store, Patrolman Gurnett became suspicious of the actions of a passenger who had lighted from a taxi cab. Upon questioning the man, the man was evasive in his answers. He suddenly darted to the street, turned and fired at the officer who retained the fire. At this point, Patrolman Yahr, off duty and civilian clothes, was behind Patrolman Gurnett and observed the gunfire. Patrolman Yahr immediately fired at the gunman who in turn fired at both officers. In this exchange of gunfire, the suspect was mortally wounded. He was identified as the perpetrator of the holdup, had a criminal record, and was on parole. The Columbia Association Medal for Valor by Lieutenant Chimetti awarded to Patrolman Raymond C. Oller. While on foot patrol, was informed that an armed robbery was being committed in a hotel. Patrolman Oller immediately proceeded to the scene. Upon entering, observed the man going through the cache drawer. Another man, who was hidden from view and holding the hotel clerk at gunpoint, then fired, shot at the officer. When patrolman Oller fired a shot and retained, both men surrendered and were placed under arrest. The Shamran Society Medal for Merit by Patrolman Janowitz awarded to Patrolman Ralph Kaufman. While on patrol duty, heard shots for help and was informed that two men had perpetrated an armed robbery in a restaurant. Patrolman Kaufman observed and pursued one of the fleeing bandits and discharged a warning shot. The bandit turned and fired a shot at the officer who returned the fire. The gunman then jumped between parked automobiles and exchanged shots with the officer. Due to his concern for the safety of pedestrians who had gathered, Patrolman Kaufman refrained from any further exchange of fire with the gunman. Disregarding his own personal safety, the officer continued to close in on the perpetrator and was aided by a civilian who lunged at the thug from the rear. In the ensuing struggle, Patrolman Kaufman quickly subdued, disarmed, and placed the gunman under arrest. The prisoner had a long criminal record and admitted committing three additional holdups with an accomplice who was subsequently apprehended. Patrolman Kaufman has previous citations. The Greater New York Police Post Number 1999 Veterans of Foreign Wars Medal for Valor by Patrolman James McGinnis awarded to Patrolman Sam Katz and the New York City Police Post Number 460 American Legion Medal for Valor by Lieutenant O'Neill awarded to Patrolman Joseph J. Cattali. While on radio motor patrol, the men were informed that a holdup was in progress. They immediately proceeded to the scene and as they approached, observed two men emerging from the premises, one of whom discharged shots at the officers who retained the fire. One of the men was later apprehended as his resident, suffering from gunshot wound of the abdomen inflicted by the officers. The prisoner admitted having engaged the patrolman in the above gunfight and was identified by two men whom they had assaulted and robbed. The mayor comments on the fact that these men have previous citations and the mayor has made a note of so many of these men who have been previously cited at the City Hall for bravery in line of duty, beyond the requirements of duty and often to the extent of great personal peril. And now Commissioner Murphy will read the next citation. They're demanding a picture now, however, for a few moments. And now Commissioner Murphy. The police department of Holy Name Society, Manhattan Bronx and Richmond Medal for Valor, be awarded by Deputy Inspector Jones to Patrolman Isaac Gilman, and the Sherman Day Medal for Valor to Patrolman William F. Turkvick. While on radio motor patrol, proceeded in response to a radio signal to a premises where apparently a demented man, armed with an automatic shotgun, had shot and killed the superintendent of the premises. While the officers were examining the body, the gunman who was hiding behind a wall discharged the shot at them, wounding Patrolman Teckvick. Patrolman Gilman returned the fire and, in the exchange of shots, wounded his assailant twice. In spite of his wounds, the gunman advanced towards Patrolman Gilman, and the officer quickly lunged it as assailant. With the assistance of Patrolman Teckvick and the other officers present, the gunman was overpowered, disarmed, and placed under arrest. Both these men have previous citations. Approximately all of the men cited today have been previously cited at City Hall, and that's a very interesting commentary on the quality, the real quality of the police in New York. The Rhinelander Medal for Valor. Commissioner Murphy. Governated by Mr. Philip Rhinelander II, awarded to Detective Joseph T. Sheldrick, and the Commerce and Industry Association Medal for Valor, awarded by Mr. Thomas Jefferson Miley, and awarded to Patrolman Ruben Caston, who was a probationary patrolman attached to the police academy and temporarily assigned to the 18th detective squad. While on special duty in the rear of a delicatessen store, observed a man, armed with a loaded pistol, enter the premises in an attempt to commit an armed robbery. When the officers confronted the bandit, he disregarded their command to surrender and fired a shot at them. The officers retained the fire and rushed at the gunman, who, after a violent struggle, was overpowered, disarmed, and placed under arrest. He had a previous criminal record and was identified as having committed several other hold-ups. One of these medals had to be fastened around the officer's neck, and Vincent Finn looked anxious as the mayor tried to master the situation. Mr. Rhinelander's shaking hands with the officers. There's a short picture now by the cameramen determined to harvest all this information through the medium of pictures and what a story a picture is, how it recaptures the scene, and the cameraman knows that. The mayor is posing, and now they've had their pictures, and Commissioner Murphy reads the next citation. Mr. Rhinelander's shaking hands with one of the officers. Cameramen are a little bit slow now, but they get their picture. They give their orders. Oh, there's another fellow steps out now, and he wants this picture, too. So there's another slight delay before we hear the next citation by Commissioner Murphy. Now it's breaking up, and Commissioner Murphy... The Michael J. Sheridan Medal for Valor, awarded to Detective Elmer E. McKinney, and the Michael J. Delahanty Medal for Valor, presented by Mr. Delahanty, to Detective James T. Delaney, Jr., who was a patrolman attached to the 8th Precinct at the time of occurrence. While on patrol duty, patrolman Delaney heard shots and observed three men fleeing in an automobile from a tavern, where they had attempted an armed robbery during which a bystander was shot. Patrolman Delaney fired one shot at the automobile, which then crashed into a construction crane. As the bandits attempted to flee from the automobile, patrolman Delaney fired several more shots at them, wounding two of the bandits. Patrolman Delaney was then joined by Detective McKinney, and they pursued and apprehended two of the bandits, one of whom dropped a loaded pistol, which was recovered by the officers. Patrolman Delaney, on patrol duty, heard the shooting of the police, and the police were shot. Patrolman Delaney fired one shot at the automobile, which then crashed into a construction crane. Patrolman Delaney, and he was then joined by Detective McKinney, and as the third bandit approached with a pistol in his hand, Detective McKinney shot and killed him. Patrolman Delaney, and the other man who was awarded the medal, and the other man who awarded the medal, I didn't catch his name. They're posing in quite a picture there with the mayor. It's a real sextet, or a septet, if we count the mayor as seven. And now, Commissioner Murphy. The William McLean Freeman Medal for Valor to Patrolman Alexander Kirsch, and the National Surety Medal for Valor, presented by Mr. N. J. L. Piper, Vice President, to Patrolman Arthur J. Risdell. While on motor patrol duty, in civilian clothes, heard shots and observed a large group of youths engaged in a gang fight. Patrolman Ristell intercepted a group of approximately five boys who immediately attacked him, and at this moment, another youth discharged a shot at the officer. Patrolman Kirsch commanded the fleeing youth to drop the weapon, but instead, the youth returned and fired a shot at him, but the cartridge failed to explode. Patrolman Kirsch quickly subdued and placed the youth under arrest. Patrolman Ristell also apprehended two of the assailants. The officers were then surrounded by a group of youths, and Patrolman Kirsch discharged a warning shot, whereupon four shots were fired at the officers by an unseen person of persons. Upon the arrival of assistance, Patrolman Ristell apprehended two other youths as participants in the gang fight. The Brooklyn Citizens Medal for Valor by Arthur Kunziger, or Borough President Cashmore. Awarded to Patrolman Daniel C. Hines. While on patrol duty, Patrolman Hines observed two men acting suspiciously, seated in a parked automobile with the motor running. Drawing his service revolver, Patrolman Hines ordered the men from the car. At that moment, two other men emerged from a doorway, and one of them fired five shots at the officer, who dropped unharmed to the ground and fired two shots in return. Three more shots were fired at Patrolman Hines from the direction of the car. These men leaped into the car, to charge a shotgun at the officer as they sped away. Patrolman Hines immediately reported the occurrence so that an alarm could be transmitted. A short while later, these men were apprehended by other members of the force. The four gunmen, three of whom had previous criminal records, had committed a series of armed robberies and burglaries, and a large quantity of arms and munitions and property representing the proceeds of burglaries and robberies were recovered. The James R. Murphy Memorial Medal of the Grand Jurors Association, Bronx County. Awarded by Mr. Frank Meehan, Secretary-Treasurer, to Patrolman Rufus Schatzberg. While on patrol duty, observed four suspicious men in a moving automobile. Ignoring the officer's command to halt the operator of the car, increased the speed, and Patrolman Schatzberg commandeered a taxi cab, pursued and overtook the vehicle and apprehended the occupants, disarming one of a loaded revolver which he had attempted to use. The search of the four men disclosed a pellet gun, an imitation pistol, a homemade bludgeon, a hunting knife, and a quantity of ammunition in their possession. These men, with five accomplices subsequently apprehended by detectives, had committed a series of assaults and armed robberies throughout the city. The Catherine O'Dwyer Medal for life saving to Patrolman Leo A. Bola, who was attached to the 79th precinct at the time. While on patrol, observed smoke coming from a four-story brick tenement. Patrolman Bola immediately proceeded to the scene and dispatched a passing pedestrian to turn in an alarm. He then entered the premises to arouse the occupants, and upon reaching the second floor, he was forced to retreat to the street due to the dense smoke and flames. Patrolman Bola then mounted the fire escape and on the outside of the building climbed to the second floor, where he assisted several women and removed two children to safety. Patrolman Bola re-entered the burning building through the window and on the second floor, located and rescued two more children. This officer was instrumental in saving the lives of seven persons and was treated for smoke poisoning and remained on sick report for 25 days. The Peter F. Meyer Medal for valor, awarded by Miss Margaret E. Meyer to Patrolman Jack J. Pound and the Daniel B. Friedman Medal for valor. Patrolman Sauter will come up on that. Patrolman Sauter will make the award. That medal is awarded to Patrolman Daniel J. Leahy. While on Radio Motor Patrol, these officers were informed that an apparently demented man had stabbed seven persons, four whom had died. After summoning ambulances and assistance, the officers proceeded to search for this man and upon locating him, ordered him to drop the knife. He attempted to stab the officers with the knife and during the struggle that ensued, he was struck on the head with the butt of a revolver, subdued, disarmed, and placed under arrest. The prisoner had a previous criminal record and was released from a mental institution only two days prior. The prisoner working Where the police was at grew up a great разв большой man. The President of the patrolman beauty was his brother arguing in defending leniency and ی evidencing his family prey. The un indication of justice on trafficking in china, which was Taranto and and with some light Reviews invitation to bring himself from the day. Here they are in school. Jodap finance해요. officers. No doubt is a great thrub and pleasure to the mayor to greet these brave men of the police department here at City Hall Plaza today in the awarding of medals. And now Commissioner Murphy stepping down. They're posing for a picture with the mayor and Mrs. Loretto. We remember that tragic circumstance in the Bronx of Officer Loretto on vacation, intercepting these two criminals in the useless shooting and snapping out of the life of this fine young officer. Mrs. Loretto was holding up very well under the circumstances when the medal was awarded in the first part of the proceedings. She was the first to receive it. One, it was the only posthumous medal. Thank God there was only one real casualty in this list. Very often there's four, five, and as many as six and seven. But Mrs. Loretto was the only one today, and she bears up very well under the glare of all this publicity in front of City Hall. No doubt the deep heart wound and the loss of her husband is the most outstanding factor in the situation even yet. And she seems indeed very much affected by the entire proceeding here. The mayor is most kind to her as well as Commissioner Murphy. Our President Lyons is here with us today. There was a temporary suspension of a very important meeting of the Board of Estimate in order that the mayor and the members of the board might participate in this ceremony here at City Hall. Now the cameramen have a few more requests to make of those. No, they're breaking up now and Commissioner Murphy is coming back to the microphone. Mrs. Loretto was being escorted to a seat again in front of City Hall. Commissioner Murphy. Reverend Miss Dorfranck, another chaplain of our department, will read a song. Great.Тar kindergarten. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein. For it is he that comes to the therein. For it is he that hath founded it upon the seas and hath established it upon the floods. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord, and who may stand in his holy place? He that is clean of hands and pure in heart, that lifteth not up his soul unto falsehood, and sweareth not deceitfully, he shall receive a blessing from the Lord, and a just award from the God of his salvation. This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O God of Jacob. Commissioner Murphy. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it's my pleasure to present to you his honor, Mayor Vincent Pelletier. Commissioner Murphy, Reverend Clergy, officers, members, and friends of the New York City Police Department. First of all, I want to call to your attention the fact that on this very important occasion, the Board of Estimate was meeting in an executive session on a very important question, meeting, and the members of the Board, by unanimous vote, agreed to recess that very important meeting, to attend these ceremonies in a body, because each member of the Board felt that on an occasion such as this, important city business could be put aside temporarily, to participate with the members of the New York City Police Department, with the friends and relatives of the members of the department, with the public at large, in sharing with you today, the honors that we accord these heroic members of the New York City Police Department. And I call to your attention that here present at these ceremonies, reading from left to right, the Borough President of Richmond County, Cornelius Hall, the Borough President of Manhattan, Robert Wagner, Jr., the Borough President of Bronx County, James Lyons, the Commissioner of Borough Works of Kings, representing Borough President Cashmore, who is ill, John Lynch, the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, Charles Horlitz, the President of the Council of the City of New York, Joe Schott, the Borough President of Queens County, Maurice Fitzgerald, the Comptroller of the City of New York, was also present at these ceremonies, but had to leave for important business at his office, and then to return here, to meet with the other members of the board at the recess meeting. I thought it was well to point that out, as indicating the interest of the governing body of the City of New York, in the welfare of the Police Department of this great city. I thought it was a very important thing to do. It is my high privilege to speak at this ceremony today, at which we honor members of our police force, who during the year 1950, performed conspicuous acts of bravery, and the widow of one who sacrificed his life in a performance of duty. For Mrs. Thelma Loretto, widow of patrolman Alfred Loretto, who gave his life in carrying out his police duties, and the other, I know it is a small comfort to tell her that a great city honors her today. But the life which patrolman Loretto sacrificed will forever be a reminder to all of us the purpose of the perilous and heroic work performed day in and day out by New York City's finest. It is an easier job to extend felicitations to the 28 other medal and award winners, who are here with members of their families and friends, to receive recognition for performing extraordinary deeds of bravery at imminent personal peril during the year 1950. The words are futile on an occasion such as this. You, the members of the New York City Police Department, who have been honored, have brought credit and pride to yourselves, to your families, and to your noble station in life as guardians of the law. Our prayers join Mrs. Loretto's in asking that almighty God grant eternal rest, to her late husband. The heart of a grateful city wells with pride and appreciation at the heroic deeds of the living. The city will long remember their valor. May I, as the mayor of the city of New York, expressing the thanks of a grateful people throughout our city, to the city of New York City, congratulate and personally thank each and every medal award winner. Thank you very much. And now Commissioner Murphy. I am the son of the head of the foot. Benediction will now be said by the Reverend G. Caleb Moore, another one of our police chaplains. And now may the blessing of God, the Father of us all, of Jesus Christ, his Son, the Redeemer of us all, and the Holy Spirit, the Comforter of us all, God bless all, and the Lord, and the Lord, that également noi be sold to the Jr Laborientos, and proud of our manifestations. Today, it is the Lord's days after their 3rd and Hakimland celebrating the honeybee Chief Inspector Flath is now leading the men into a dress formation and review for the mayor and the assembled guests here in City Hall Plaza. We'll wait just a moment before we conclude the ceremonies to see if there's any final note of interest that we may bring to you. However, I do believe that that about concludes the ceremonies of the medal awards here at City Hall today. There were 28 awards made to living officers who fortunately, after performing these great deeds of valor to the extent of great personal peril to themselves, they were able to receive them. Some of them showed the indications of wounds and hospitalization that they had received because of injuries received in this line of duty. And then Mrs. Loretta, you have heard the mayor's tribute to her when she personally received the one posthumous medal as the first part of this ceremony here today. A very fine crowd turned out. The police department itself dressed the square very beautifully. rather than with the ranking members of the police academy. And that is the young officers of the police academy. And I mean to say with the ranking commissioners and line officers of the police department occupying places of honor here in the city of all arrangements. I was just hesitating a moment. I thought the mayor was going to speak, but he's just conferring now with Commissioner Murphy and Vincent Finn of the police department. A color guard now is leaving the plaza. And that is about all we can bring you from city hall in the awarding of these 29 medals today to the men of the police department of the city of New York, the great army of blue. As long as the city exists, the element of hazard and the possible sacrifice of life in carrying out the sworn duty of the protection of life and property of the people of the city of New York will always leave the element of emergency in this duty. And that of course is important. And now the mayor steps out to the curb to take a final view of the police line, officers, men and band and so forth as they pass in review. And that is all we can bring you from city hall at this time. We return you now to the studios at the municipal building and rejoin the program now in progress. WNYC. Stooligan involving times all하지 in peace. It makes good procends with the spare parts. Spen working from business. Ev 해야 comes with the administrative officers of the city on the vigil in the경ister of affairs. Dominical aventuras. So this looks like you probably need thezeluve ones Patreoniki on theúblicates, who were HOPEU stal her in the home of the city. Also a miracle says about holding his安 guys. The duties with the retrospectively we're trying to assertize the Señor's decision. It's perfect where he understands and knows how w veces develop, at least there's wine areas.