No matter where you are, when you turn your dial in the next 15 minutes, you will hear this program. In just 25 seconds, we will join with practically every radio station in New York State to bring you the first of a weekly series of programs devoted to civil defense. We sincerely hope that the content of these programs will provide the information you need to decide your places in your communities and your actions in your homes for the protection of yourself, your family, and your neighbors. This is the first in a weekly series of programs. Plan for survival. Do you know what an atom bomb sounds like? Listen. That's all the sound of an atomic explosion the human ear can hold. God willing, none of us will ever see its flash or feel the impact of its blast. But let's face it, it could happen here. If it should, what is your plan for survival? This is the first in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the New York State Civil Defense Radio Network. In a moment, you will hear why this network is different from any other and why the things you'll hear over it are of the utmost importance to you. Here's Bill Leonard to tell you about it. In the next quarter hour, you will hear from Millard Caldwell, administrator of the Federal Civil Defense Administration, and Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, acting chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. First, I'd like to explain briefly how this civil defense radio network came into being. Several months ago, it became evident that in case of an attack on any part of New York State, radio stations would immediately be called into service to keep people informed and to coordinate rescue work. The radio stations got together and have organized a special network adapted to this present emergency. When you hear a program broadcast over a regular network, it's transmitted from city to city by telephone wires. But this is the Civil Defense radio network, and it's been set up so that each station in New York State picks up over the radio the program as it is broadcast by some other station and instantaneously rebroadcasts it. In other words, this network can function even if regular communication and power lines should be destroyed, and it links virtually every station in New York State in this manner. To test this network, and at the same time, to bring you information and instruction to tell you what's been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help. Each week at this time, we'll present officials and specialists who can speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense and tell you how you as an individual can do your part. And now, without further delay, let's talk with Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, acting chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. Colonel Wilkinson, in your estimation, what are the chances that New York City or any other part of New York State will be subjected to atomic attack? I can't answer that one, Mr. Leonard, nor can anyone else except a potential enemy. We know that Russia has the bombs and long-range planes to drop them on any major target in the United States unless they're intercepted. Well, Colonel, just how well prepared are we right now? Not nearly what we ought to be, though a great deal has been done in the past six months since our state civil defense commission has been in existence. But a great deal more must be done and done as rapidly as humans can prepare if we are to be able to overcome the consequences of atomic attack. The fact is we are far from ready or anything like it. Well, Colonel Wilkinson, how does the state commission work with local cities and counties for the overall civil defense plan? There are 104 local civil defense directors throughout the state, Mr. Leonard. These are the men directly in charge of the civil defense planning and emergency operation within their own community. They are appointed locally. Some are paid officials. Others are on a voluntary status, depending on the individual locality. All coordinate their local city or county plans with and through the commission, which is the top-level administrative body for civil defense in the state. Well, that sounds like a pretty efficient sort of setup, Colonel, but is it working out well? That all depends on the individual, Mr. Leonard. A competent, intelligent, thorough-planning local director who has selected a good staff and understands the urgency of the matter at hand can and already has produced excellent results and made splendid progress. Unfortunately, there are a few who have yet to grasp what civil defense means to either their own community or to the overall welfare of the state and nation. They may have to learn in a tragic way, unless they keep pace with the others, the magnitude of the job of protecting over 15 million people in this state is almost beyond the comprehension of a lot of people. I understand there are several different classifications as to areas in the civil defense plan, such as target and non-target areas. What's meant by these classifications? A target area is one which, because of its size, location, or the nature of its industries, is considered by both civil and military authorities as a logical place an enemy would attempt to damage or destroy. All other communities in the state are non-target areas, and their job is to assist a stricken city with organized civil defense teams and by receiving those made homeless by the attack. Therefore, the non-target area has as much work to do in civil defense as a target city or area. Well, Colonel Wilkinson, isn't it natural for the 8 million people who live and work in New York City to feel that New York, the city of New York, is the number one target area? It's natural, Mr. Leonard, but a lot of people in Detroit, Chicago, Washington, and some West Coast cities would argue that with you. And there's some other cities right in this state that have reason to feel they are also primary target areas. You must realize that 22% of the population of all the target cities in this country is in the state of New York. How would the cities function in case of atomic attack? Let's look at the thing realistically, Mr. Leonard. Suppose an atomic bomb were to fall on any target in the state. The stricken area could do only so much to help itself. Its immediate job would be to open streets so civil defense forces could get through, fight fires, evacuate wounded, provide first aid to survivors, and so on. The state's most important job would be to get rescue units and emergency squads to the point of attack as quickly as possible. In other words, surrounding communities would have to be called upon instantly to move into the attack area and go to work. I might add that plans for all this activity are already drawn up. Obviously, the state civil defense commission can function at this level better than any individual community. However, thousands of lives will depend on how well citizens in each community have been trained to help themselves in case of an attack. The point I want to make for anyone listening in the entire state is that civil defense is everybody's business. Colonel Wilkinson, before we continue, let's listen to a message from Millard Caldwell, administrator of the Federal Civil Defense Administration, which he recorded in his office in Washington especially for this program. Mr. Caldwell. First of all, I want to take this opportunity on behalf of the Federal Civil Defense Administration to express our appreciation of the splendid work which the radio stations of New York State have undertaken in putting together the statewide civil defense radio network. This complete coverage by all the radio stations in the state may be the means of saving thousands of lives. This is true of your information program entitled Plan for Survival, as well as your Organization for Emergency. The public may have to depend heavily on radio to find out what to do, as well as what has happened in the event of actual attack. The time and effort, as well as the expense, which the radio broadcasting industry has given to civil defense thus far, is a real contribution. It will be of even greater help as the public becomes increasingly aware of the problem. I sincerely hope that more states will follow the example set by the radio stations of New York and New Jersey in facing up to that problem. We would like to see other stations organized on a statewide basis also to meet whatever emergency may come. Federal officials, state officials, and responsible executives at county, city, and community levels are doing all they can to advance organized civil defense. In the final analysis, however, civil defense is a personal matter. It begins with the family and the home. I strongly urge every man and woman, therefore, to find out what he, as an individual, can do to support and participate in his local civil defense activity, both where he lives and where he works. Radio stations everywhere can help put that message across. Thank you, Mr. Caldwell. Colonel Wilkinson, getting back to the details of the states program and the work of the commission, how do those various agencies or departments you mentioned a few minutes ago function in the complete state plan? First of all, by putting the personnel and machinery of their departments at the disposal of the commission. Secondly, these experts and authorities on the subject of health, police work, firefighting, traffic, and so on, act as consultants to the staff of the commission and to the local directors in our work of drawing up the many specific plans and operating procedures for the local county and city civil defense organizations. I've heard that recruiting of volunteers has lagged and lagged badly. Why is that, Colonel Wilkinson? Several things can account for the slowness of recruiting, Mr. Leonard. First of all, the work of completely organizing the city, county, and state offices of civil defense, the preparation and distribution of standard directives for uniform procedure, the establishment of mutual assistance agreements, and the many other vitally essential organizational details had to be completed before we could put untrained volunteers to work. And you must remember the average man or woman doesn't thoroughly understand yet that the threat of atomic disaster actually hangs over our heads right this minute. They don't understand that the time to plan and train and learn what to do is right now, not after an atomic bomb is dropped. When that happens, it'll be too late for thousands of men, women, and children. When the great mass of the people, aroused by radio programs such as this or by any other means, really understand the urgency of the situation, they will volunteer. That's why we must get our message across to every man and woman in the state. The time is now. The penalty for delay may be death and destruction. I can't put it any stronger than that. Thank you, Colonel Wilkinson and Millard Caldwell for inaugurating this new civil defense series. Next week, at the same time, Martin Caden, technical specialist of the New York State Civil Defense Commission, will tell you something about the atom bomb, how it acts, and what it does. And he will also correct several misconceptions about the A-bomb. And beginning with program number three, we hope to devote the entire time to answering questions, questions that you listeners have sent us. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, New York 16. I know many of you have been wondering about the whole civil defense picture. What you can do. What would happen if your community were attacked. What plans have been made to move you to a safe place, and so on. Send us your questions, and we'll do our best to answer them. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, New York 16. We will answer your questions on subsequent programs just as quickly as we can. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been listening to the first in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special emergency broadcasting network. The speakers were Millard Caldwell, administrator of the Federal Civil Defense Administration, and Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, acting chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Committee, who were interviewed by Bill Leonard. Next week, we'll tell you something about the atom bomb. Be sure to listen. It will help you to build your own plan for survival. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. Thank you.