Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand asks, what is the role of women in community leadership? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the place of women in the schools and in the social and political life of their communities. Now our moderator James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are members of Delta Kappa Gamma, the National Society for Women, which has been meeting here in Chicago. Your moderator is seated around the table here with four women educators, classroom teachers from three different states. I think several events make this reviewing stand discussion a bit unique. We surrender our microphone to the ladies. We hear from classroom teachers rather than administrators. And we listen to their views just before the opening of the schools in an important election year. I'm pleased to present Cecile Combs from East St. Louis, supervisor of music. Ella Hanawalt from Milwaukee, professor of psychology at the Milwaukee Downer College. Catherine Obi from Rockford. And Berdello Ross from Minneapolis, teacher of English in the Edison High School. Now opening the discussion, I'd like to raise a number of exploratory questions to get your positions identified. Is it your feeling, Ms. Hanawalt, that women should play a larger role in community leadership? Yes, I feel that they should, not only that they should, but actually they are. This is a period in which there has been a growing tendency, perhaps it began when women were given suffrage, and a greater interest in public life developed. But this is a period in which the role of women in leadership is increasing all the time. Do you go along with that, Ms. Obey? Yes, indeed I do. I feel that women should contribute, and to make a greater contribution in the community in which they live, because they have certain qualities which justify that contribution, and which may add something, which has not heretofore been contributed generally. Well, how about this old claim though, Ms. Ross, that the women's place is in the home? Seems to me that it's an obsolete Euripides, who said I believe women should be good for everything at home, but nothing away from it. Do you think that women are capable of community leadership, as capable as men, Ms. Hanawalt? I think they are. I think we have a belief in differences in the abilities of men and women that aren't... Aren't there physical, emotional, and mental differences? Well, there are obvious physical differences, but mentally and emotionally, I think that we may say that these differences have grown out of the kind of environment, cultural environment, in which they have lived, and that they are growing more and more alike, as the opportunities for women to participate in the affairs of the environment are growing and increasing. I think that's one of the most important roles in community leadership for women, is to influence the community so it sees that they can take their place in leadership as well as men. They certainly have just as much ability, if it is developed, to take their places as leaders, as the men have. Well, do you think that communities will accept women in leadership roles? I take it they would in certain roles. Women would, forgive me, serve tea delightfully on certain important occasions, and they are they they they seem to be cast in in in certain feminine roles, but to to discuss the subject generally. Do you think do you think communities will really accept women in leadership roles? Eventually, I think they will. But I think that we are still somewhat under the influence of the old idea that a woman leader was too aggressive and a little too deviant from the average. And we look upon her as we looked upon Carrie Nation and some of those early women reformers who were very aggressive. But as we get more accustomed to the idea, I believe that we will accept them. Then too, it's a question largely of community education, isn't it? Yes. The community definitely must be educated to accept the woman in the role of a leader. Well, we're we're talking we're generalizing here pretty much when you talk about community leadership precisely what are you talking about? Well, for example, I would say housing. Certainly that's a field in which women should excel. I believe too that they could influence a great deal exert a great deal of influence in architecture and I think in nutrition and in juvenile delinquency, the improvement of recreational facilities for juveniles. What would you add to that, Ms. Cornish? I would say in the character building institutions, women excel in that. That would be the schools. Well, and scouting and all of the groups of that sort. I feel that as Dr. Hanewalt has mentioned, the larger, more important positions will come to a woman who has demonstrated her ability in some of the so-called lesser community positions of leadership. I think any place where you might consider that there is service or the matter of true human relations, we find women preeminently qualified. It seems to me very important too that women should get outside the home and have contact with the affairs of school and community and church and the various other agencies in the community because that keeps her mind from shriveling up. She's more stimulating in the home if she's had those broader contacts. Of course, you are familiar, Ms. Hanewalt, I'm sure, with the classical prototype of the woman political leader, let's say. A person who's lost a great deal of her femininity, who's pretty robust and who's pretty much of a driver. You're not wishing to cast women in that kind of role, I take it? No, but most of our political women leaders who are recognized as really worthwhile leaders are not of that character at the present time. You wouldn't say that about Margaret Chase Smith or some of our... Indeed, I wouldn't. Indeed, I wouldn't. I come from a community where in all the years there have been only two women who have been chairman of the board of supervisors. And in both cases, those women have taken definite leadership in improvement for the community. The most recent case is a woman who was responsible for revising the code for taverns in Winnebago County and in setting up a hospital in our former county home. Well, now, since all of you people around the table here are teachers, I should like to ask specifically whether this council about leadership applies to women teachers. What do you think about that, Ms. Coons? Well, I really feel that the teacher is the real leader in the community. Not all leaders get out and join organizations, however, and are all speaking. I think there's a sort of a passive leadership in which the teacher's opinion is felt if she's able to project her philosophy of the good of children and the development of children in school. She can be a leader without taking the podium to be one. She can be one. The teacher, it seems to me, has exactly the kind of preparation for leadership which is needed in the community because teaching is a sort of a leadership task. And leadership is sort of a teaching task, too. That is, the leader has to know how to instruct and to lead the thinking of the group which he is leading. So I feel there's a mutual interchange of qualities there. And we must never forget that quiet leadership that the teacher does have, of which Ms. Coons spoke, where she develops within her own school leadership. I think all of us teachers are familiar with other teachers whose students have gone out. And they are not entirely responsible for that. But it is very interesting to follow certain teachers whose students have gone out into their communities and become great leaders within the community. Now we know that we have, listening to this program, a good many teachers and a good many people in communities who are interested in the schools. Our correspondence would indicate that. I'd like to ask whether this community responsibility of which you speak in here is in the teacher's job. How about that, Ms. Ross? I would feel that it did decidedly, that it was almost one of the qualifications for becoming a candidate to be elected to a position in a school. I believe that in some cases, one of the main points that is considered in electing a teacher to a position is how active her leadership will be in the school, in the community. It seems to me that the teacher owes it to herself and to her community to exercise community leadership as well as school leadership. The teacher who locks herself up in the four walls of her schoolroom and doesn't broaden out has much less to bring to the classroom than the teacher who has experience in the community. I think we must not fail though to recognize that many classroom teachers do not have the time they should have for community work. I think that is a real challenge to our administrators, our principals, our school superintendents to plan schedules so that their teachers may have time to participate in community affairs, especially in the case of the women teachers. Well, now I don't want to pursue this one facet of community leadership too long here. We are teachers and interested in it. But I can't resist the opportunity to ask whether you people feel by any chance that we have too many women school teachers. Ms. Anna Walt? No, I don't think we have too many. I think we have too many. Would you like to have more men? Yes, I would like to have more men because we need more teachers, women or men. But I want to follow the same principle here that I do in all aspects of leadership. That we are more interested in getting people with the right qualifications than we are in getting either men or women. Now, I notice that one of the objectives of your society, Delta Kappa Gamma, is to eliminate discrimination against women in the schools. I take it you are concerned with some kind of discrimination, Ms. Obey? Indeed, we are. We are concerned with the discrimination in the differentials of salaries between men and women, doing the same type of work, requiring the same experience and training. Also, discriminations that have to do with banning married women from our public schools. And a third one, and more subtle, is the matter of promotions of women within the school systems, particularly. Do you advocate a single salary schedule for men and women? Indeed we do. And Illinois has gone on record and has, Delta Kappa Gamma, has been responsible with the help of others, to have a law passed in 1947, which indicates that men and women, doing the same type of work, must receive the same salary. But sometimes, don't you think that the promotions are granted more for the purpose of increasing the salary than for recognition of superior service? Yes, Dr. Hanwell, but first we had to remove the actual existence of a situation. In the state of Illinois, there were some women receiving $1,000 less than men doing exactly the same type of work. So the first effort was to remove that actual discrimination, which we knew existed. And these others I consider more subtle. I think though, I think though, that if we could remove that discrimination, which is very extreme, between the salaries of administrators and of teachers, that that would be a step in the direction of removing the discrimination between the salaries of men teachers and women teachers. Well, I mean, of course you are talking here in the presence of a male administrator, you know. Yes, I realize that. That distresses you not at all, I take it? Not the least because I believe... I was afraid of that. I believe that the schools, the teaching work in the schools is the most important work. And that you administrators are means to an end. And teaching is the end. Well now, this single salary schedule business, which is a hot potato if I may say so, and it applies not only to teachers, it applies all through the professional world. You make a good case for it, that you have to pay the same salary for the same work. But let's say, Miss Coombs, that you have a married man with ten children doing a job, and you have a single woman doing the same job. Might you not wish that this man with this heavy family responsibility should get a little more money? Well, I'm sure the man would wish so, but... I should like to point out that there are many women with dependents. Just because a woman is unmarried and teaching is no sign that she's a single... has not a single dependent. In our state, there has been a survey made of that very thing. And we have found out that what I'm saying is true. Many single women have many, many dependents. I don't say they have more than married men. But the size of families now is not ten children families. No, that would be slightly exceptional, I confess. But I want to pursue this with another question, if I may. If you get this single salary schedule, which you apparently have in Illinois, won't it mean that you'll have fewer men in the schools? That was, Dr. McBurney, that was one of the most frequent arguments that we met while we were working on this. And in our studies, we found that in schools that had this equal salary, the single salary schedule, that there were just as many men, if not more, in those systems. And we also found that the general salary schedules were much better in school systems where there were no differentials between men and women. How about this matter of... That incidentally is fairly convincing evidence you present there, Ms. Obey, I must confess. I do want to ask about this alleged discrimination against married women in the schools. And I think that carries over to a lesser degree to other occupations as well. I certainly can remember, not too far back, many boards of education simply would not hire married women as teachers. What's your attitude toward that problem? We deplore that kind of attitude, and it does exist still in Minnesota, where, for example, there are systems that give a man, when he marries, $200 as an increment. But when a woman marries, her contract is terminated immediately. They fire her. Well, does that make any sense at all, do you think, Ms. Aniwell? No, I think that, again, that there should be no discrimination. I think, though, that we must qualify that a little bit by saying that when married women go into teaching, it should be a major interest, and not just means of getting a little extra pin money or something on the side. And that married women should be willing to carry their full share of the workload in the school. One of the problems with married women is their desire to get home from school early and leave all the extracurricular work to the other teachers. I think Ms. Aniwell has brought out a point there that many teachers themselves and the community in general have not yet felt that teaching is a career. They have not put it in line with other careers, and this other matter, this very matter, that we have a marriage ban is a very good indication of that. You think married women make good teachers? Yes, if they're interested. Some of the best people I know, some of the people who do the best job so far as creative teaching is concerned, are married teachers. Teachers who have a good deal of responsibility but who give a great deal to the community as well as to their own profession. But if they were good teachers before they were married, then the married has nothing to do with the fact that they are good or bad. A good teacher is a good teacher. And there are many good married teachers and there are many poor married teachers. However, we have studies on almost everything, and Illinois made a study on that when we were working on this ban of the married woman teacher. And we found actual studies from Columbia University where they had tried to measure the qualities of good teaching, and the conclusion was that if there was any edge at all on the matter of teaching merit, that it was on the side of the married woman teacher. And for that reason, some of us wondered why we spinsters want to put the married women into their jobs. I want to ask about this third plank in your platform. We've been discussing the single salary and the status of married women. You seem to be distressed, Miss Obey, that women seldom are promoted to the administrative post, to the higher paying jobs. And I rather gather from what Miss Hanawalt said that that was a dodge that was used to get around these other regulations. I think that's for two reasons, Dr. McBurney. One is, it is the pattern within the community, first place. And secondly, I do feel that many women have not promoted themselves, one might say, by further study and by preparation, which would equip them for that work. I think that's true. And because women don't anticipate that they will get a chance at some of these administrative posts, they don't take the trouble to qualify for them. And I feel that they shouldn't have them unless they are qualified. This whole matter of discrimination, I'd like to wipe out so that we would, whether a woman is married or single, or whether it's a woman or a man. It seems to me that the person who is best qualified both in preparation and in experience is the person to put in the position regardless of sex. Well, now, we've pursued this question of discrimination, and we've heard your answers to three charges of discrimination, particularly applied to the schools. As the only male member of this panel here today, I'm going to risk life and limb by asking a few questions about the place of women in politics. Let's move away from the schools. Do you think that women ought to get into politics, Ms. Ross? Indeed I do. I believe that women should get into politics, that women should nominate other women as candidates for office, and not only should they nominate them, but that they should back them. Now, you're talking about elective positions. Elective positions, yes, Dr. McDermott McBernie. I think they should have both elective and appointive positions. We have in Milwaukee an intergroup council which is trying to promote the appointment of women in policy-making positions, trying to get them on county boards and commissions, where they will not just do clerical work, but where they will actually have a voice in the making of policy. Now, we have been told by some of the men that what we ought to do is to seek elective positions and go through the rough battle of election campaigning. I think that that is what makes women a little bit reticent about seeking political office. They have been so sheltered that they are a little more sensitive, perhaps, to some of the rough fighting that you find in the election campaigns. Now, Miss Hanawal, forgive me, but you were the one earlier who was advancing the argument that there was no difference between men and women, that psychologically you did concede certain physical differences, obviously, no difference psychologically, emotionally, etc. Now you appear to argue that the women ought to stay away from these rough and tumble elective jobs and getting their hands and feet dirty in community politics. No. In the first place, there are differences, but they are not differences that are due to innate inheritance. They are differences which are due to environmental influences which are changing and ought to change. And I think that the women ought to get out and battle for positions. I think they should be in both types of positions, the appointed positions and the elective positions. You're talking exactly like a distinguished psychologist. I follow your line of argument. Do you go along with that? Well, however, I do think that women are fitted particularly for positions where they have a very close relationship with others. I'm told that precinct committee women who go around, ring doorbells, and visit with the neighbors, do very, very well because of that interest in people. And as I spoke about on the Board of Review or Board of Supervisors, school boards, I think they are particularly efficient. And the boards that have to do with this human relationship, which I think women have developed possibly beyond what men have. I think that there are certain characteristics that women have developed through their experience. Now, this is environmental, Dr. Burney, not inherent. That they have... Getting more psychology here, but go ahead. That there are certain characteristics which the women practice in the home, which we need to have practiced in our public life, in our community life. Such as courtesy and good care of health and cleanliness and a variety of problems that they are concerned with, that they have more experience with. And those are areas in which they can be very helpful. Well, now, we've had before us two great examples of political activity here in Chicago, which the nation heard on radio and saw on television, the two national political conventions. Were you ladies satisfied with the role of women in these two conventions? Dr. Burney, I was not satisfied at all. I am not clear exactly as to what happened in the Republican Party, but I am very sure from listening to the radio that a great disservice was done in the Democratic Party when two women were nominated and then withdrew. I feel that, and other women with whom I have talked, feel that if they were going to be nominated, that they should have remained in nomination. I think, too, they should have called the men's bluff and run for that office. That was just a courtesy that was shown them with the understanding that they wouldn't really run. I think they should have fooled the men and run. You think there was a bluff involved there, then? I think there was. Don't you think that was purely to make history, Dr. Hanawalt? Perhaps so, but that was very poor history. It would better be left unmade. Do you think the major parties might well have included a woman on the ticket? I think that women eventually should be included on the ticket. But I remember hearing Ruth Hannah-Sinn say that women must learn their politics, that women wish to jump into very important positions, and that they should be willing first to be precinct community women and work up so as to have experience. And I do not think that we should submit a woman to a very significant political office unless she has had the experience that prepares her for it. Well, now, how would you summarize your position on this question? We've been talking about the role of women in community leadership. How would you sum all this up, Miss Ross? I believe that women should feel obligated to take a strong position, a strong place in the community. I do feel we've come a long way in 100 years when you consider that it was in 1850 that Susan Anthony first asked for the floor of the convention at the National Education Association. And it took half an hour's deliberation before the men would grant her the privilege of the floor. Well, that time has changed, certainly. But I believe that ours is not only a role of the present, but also one of the future. How would you put it, Miss Obey? Now, women, by their sense of equity, their inherent interest in the management of family life, which is the basis of all good citizenship and subsequent leadership in the community, have their greatest influence in the role of community leadership by preparing our youth to take their places as they develop into maturity. The greatest quality of leadership is power to stimulate others to serve. And Miss Combs? Dr. McBurney, I feel that honesty and sincerity and sympathy may be placed side by side as characteristics of leadership. These not only make good leaders, but worthy members of society. And you have seemed to emphasize throughout the discussion that those characteristics in a person exert a kind of leadership, which may not be positively overt in all instances, but nevertheless leadership. Ms. Hanawal? Well, it seems to me that since men and women are more nearly equal, getting more and more equal in their social responsibility, that they should more nearly equally share the responsibility of leadership. I'm sorry, ladies, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What is the Role of Women in Community Leadership? We'd like to thank our guests for today. Cecile Combs, Supervisor of Music in the Public Schools of East St. Louis, Illinois. Allahana Walt, Professor of Psychology, Milwaukee Downer College, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Catherine Obi, Executive Secretary of the National Delta Kappa Gamma Publication. And Berdella Ross, Teacher of English at Edison High School in Minneapolis. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, Can India Resist Communism? Our guests will be Robert Crane, instructor in modern history, and member of the Policy Board of the Research Center on Economic Development and Cultural Change at the University of Chicago. James Avery Joyce, British barrister, author, and lecturer. Irving Flam, foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. And Paul A. Schilt, editor of the Library of Living Philosophers and professor of philosophy at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, Can India Resist Communism? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. When the Alexandrine Resist Ensign