From Washington, General of the Army's Dwight D. Eisenhower, Supreme Commander of the Allied Powers in Europe, talks to the people of the United States. General Eisenhower. Fellow Americans, as a soldier, I have been given an Allied assignment that directly concerns the security of the free world, with special reference to the country's bordering upon the Atlantic Ocean. I have approached the task aiming at the good of the United States of America, conscious that a strong, solvent America is the indispensable foundation for a free world. While I have reached certain conclusions, the subject of the free world security is so vast and complex that no man could hope to master its elements to the last critical item, or in a quarter hour to answer all questions in these fellow citizens' minds. Consequently, though I speak to you out of deep conviction, I do so in all humility, trusting to your sympathetic consideration. Our hope remains the achievement of peace based on understanding and forbearance, the only sure foundation for peace. We must never lose faith that such a peace can be ultimately established. We seek such a peace, and no one can honestly interpret our current modest preparations otherwise. But we should examine the current situation fearlessly and clearly, neither shutting our eyes to obvious dangers, nor permitting fear to warp our judgment. America's record and America's strength certainly should prevent hysterical apprehension of the future. Today we are faced by an aggressive imperialism that has more than once announced its implacable hostility to free government. Therefore, we strive to erect a wall of security for the free world, behind which free institutions can live. That wall must be maintained until communistic imperialism dies of its own inherent evil. One of the great questions before us is the will and capacity of Europe to cooperate effectively in this aim. Unless there exists in Europe a will to defend itself, no amount of outside help can possibly make it secure. A nation's defense must spring from its own soul, and the soul cannot be important. For years we have heard that Western Europe is plagued, confused, and divided far more seriously than we are. We have heard that in their homes, in factories, on the streets, millions of honest workmen are daily subjected to communist bullying. But their days and nights are haunted by the specter of invading hordes who they cannot hope to equal in numbers or in physical strength. Furthermore, the discouragement, destruction, and confusion visited upon the peoples of Europe by two world wars, stopped their productive strength, and in some instances, reduce them to levels of mere starvation. Before we begin, more than this, their spirit was smothered by war war. That is the story often told. If it were the whole story, then all I could honestly do would be to recommend that we abandon the NATO Treaty, and by ourselves attempt, however futilely, to build a separate fortress against threatening aggression. aggression. Two striking facts make such a recommendation for me impossible. The first fact is that the utter hopelessness of the alternative requires our participation in European defense. We can all understand that America must be strong in air and sea power. These elements are vitally essential to the defense of the free world. And it is through them that we protect the approaches to our homeland and the routes of commerce necessary to our existence. But this alone is not enough. Our ships will not long sail the sea, nor our planes fly the world's airways if we stand aside in fancy security while an aggressive imperialism sweeps over areas of the earth with which our own future is inseparably linked. Western Europe is the cradle of our civilization. From her, we originally drew our strength, genius, and culture. But our concern in Europe is far more than sentimental. Our own security is directly involved. Europe is a highly developed industrial complex with the largest and most varied pool of skilled labor on earth. the largest and most varied in the world. This huge potential would be a rich prize for a totalitarian invasion. Its direct importance to us is the stark fact of its possession by communistic forces would give them opportunity to develop a preponderance of power. Even this disaster would not tell the whole story. If Western Europe should be overrun by communism, many economically dependent areas in Africa and the Middle East would be affected by the debacle. South Eastern Asia would probably soon be lost. Thus, we would be cut off from the raw materials of all these regions. Materials that we need for existence. world destinies would then be dictated by imperialistic powers whose abound purpose is the destruction of freedom. The second fact bearing upon our participation in European defense is that the people of Europe are not spiritually bankrupt despite the validity of many pessimistic reports. Great sections of its population have for years labored on and fought the creeping paralysis of communism. Now the North Atlantic Treaty has brought new fuel to the flames of hope in Europe. It has noticeably lifted morale, the fundamental element in this whole situation, the force which powers all human progress. In every capital, there is growing a desire to cooperate in this mutual security effort. All the governments that I have recently visited agreed that their defense programs must be stepped up despite economic and other difficulties. In spite of preoccupations that constitute abnormal drains upon particular nations. For example, France now wages relentless and costly war against communism in Indochina. Britain, still existing on an austerity level, shoulders heavy burdens in Malaya. However, much of those nations may differ from us in their diplomatic thinking with respect to Asiatic states. There is no question concerning their solidarity in opposing communistic aggression. Within the past few days, Britain has stepped up drastically its rate of preparation. The new military service program in France bars all exemptions of every kind whatsoever. The Norwegians impress me with their unshakable determination that never again will they be victims of occupation. To them, a fighting resistance even to their own destruction is preferable. And in Italy, there are unmistakable signs of a stiffening courage and determination. The same is true of Belgium, Holland, Denmark, Portugal, Luxembourg, and Iceland. In every country, I saw heartless and heartless and heartless and heartless and heartless and heartless. The new military service program in France. The new military service program in France. In every country, I saw heartening evidence of a regeneration in Europe's spirit. It's morale, its wills, its wills, its wills, its wills, its wills, its wills. Will grow with every accretion to physical strength. The arrival in Europe, from Europe, of a new empire is now opposition een par cerveau, aberrations profonds diem zijn qui in desde probably Educationena te essen Anyways of la cons Concorde emparation. Europe's spirit. Its morale, its will to fight, will grow with every accretion to physical strength. The arrival in Europe of new American land and air units, though modest in protective influence by themselves, will certainly produce added confidence and accelerate the production of military force throughout the member nations. The European nations must, of course, produce and maintain the great bulk of the land forces necessary to their own defense. For this purpose, the most immediate need in Europe is munitions and equipment. Every one of the continental nations I visit can rapidly and markedly increase its resistance power if it can be promptly furnished additional supplies of this kind. To fill this need, our loyal neighbor Canada, with Britain and others is shouldering part of the load. In military potential, the free nations have everything they need. Natural resources, industrial genius, productive capacity, and great reservoirs of leadership abilities. Given the ingredient of morale, the determination to combine for mutual protection, the military strength will be produced at a speedy pace. With every increase in strength, the strength of the world will be the strength of the world. In the future, there will be an upward trust in morale, resulting in an ever mounting spiral of confidence and security. With respect to time, no man can know at what hour, if ever, our defensive organization may be put to the ultimate test. Because our purpose is entirely defensive, we must be ready at the earliest possible moment. Our current mobilization, properly adjusted to our peaceful security needs, should be as rapid as any required by the emergency of war. To you, the people of America, I repeat, as I have to the Congress and the President, that I believe, first, the preservation of a free America requires our participation in the defense of Western Europe. Second, success is attainable. Given unity and spirit and action, the job can be done. Third, while the transfer to Europe of American units is essential, our major and special contribution should be in the field of munitions and equipment. By no means do I believe that we Americans can support the world, military or economically. In our own interest, we must insist upon a working partnership with every nation, making the common security its task of first priority. Every one of the member nations must realize that the success of this combined effort to preserve the peace rests as directly upon America's productive economic and political strength as it does on any amount of force we can develop. Only cooperative effort by all of us can preserve for the free world a position of security, relative peace, and economic stability. Attainment of this result is largely a matter of morale and human spirit. The free world must now prove itself worthy of its own past. If Frenchmen can rise to the heights their fathers achieved at Verdun in 1916, the free world must now be the first time of the war. If the British can be the first time of the war. If the British can relive the days of 1940 when they stood alone against Hitler, if our other allies can react to today's threat in the mode of their own revered patriots, if we here in America can match the courage and self-sacrifice of the ragged, freezing members of Washington's army at Valley Forge, indeed, if each of us now proves himself worthy of his countrymen fighting and dying in Korea, then success is sure. A glorious success that will bring us security, confidence, tranquility. Each of us must do his part. We cannot delay individually or nationally, while we suspiciously scrutinize the sacrifices made by our neighbor and through a weaseling logic seek some way to avoid our own doom. If we Americans seize the lead, we will preserve and be worthy of our own past. Our children will dwell in peace. They will dwell in freedom. They will read the history of this decade with tingling pride. And from their kinship with this reservation, they will inherit more than can be expressed in millions, in acres, or in world acclaim. It is not my place as a soldier to dwell upon the politics, the diplomacy, the particular treaty arrangements that must accompany and go forward with such an effort. But I do conceive it my duty to report from time to time, both to this government and to all others in the coalition, as to progress achieved. Thus, our own and all other peoples may constantly review their decisions and their plans, and if necessary, revise them. This evening I come back to you only as one with some experience of war and peace, of some acquaintanceship with our friends of Western Europe, to bring you what is in my heart and mind. I shall go about my own task in this undertaking with the unshakable confidence that America will respond fully when the basic issues are understood. We know that 150 million United Americans constitute the greatest temporal force that has ever existed on God's earth. If we join in a common understanding of our country's role today and wholeheartedly devote ourselves to its discharge, the year 1951 may be recorded in our history in letters as bright as is written the year 1776. From Washington, your city station has brought you the speech of General of the Army's Dwight D. Eisenhower to the American people. This has been a special public service broadcast of your city station. This is the municipal broadcasting system.