Ladies and gentlemen, it's Harlem, USA. Welcome, everybody, to Harlem, USA, the program with an aim. Welcome, everybody, to Harlem, USA, the program with an aim. Here's your host for tonight, Fred Weaver. Thank you, George Willard. Tonight we have with us in the studio three people who will discuss the housing situation in Harlem, what the problems are, what is being done about them, and what should be done. We'll present them to you in a few minutes. For the musical portion of the program, you will hear recorded music by Martin Gould's 100-piece string orchestra. So how about opening with Martin Gould's orchestra playing a familiar number called Body and Soul? Philine's orchestra playing a bit more or less. Thank you. Thank you, George. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ One of the songs for which Duke Ellington is known is his composition of a tune called Solitude. We hear a recording of it played now by Martin Gould and his string orchestra. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ All right. And now here's George Willett with a word about the Community of Harlem Civic Association. Folks, the discussion you're about to hear tonight is brought to you by the Community of Harlem Civic Association. It's in line with the policy of the Civic Association to give fair airing to the problems which beset Harlem. The Civic Association, organized in 1948, has been very active in bringing favorable results to the Uptown community of Harlem. More and brighter lights have been added to the community. New schools have been opened and others have been planned. The health facilities have improved, and all in all, conditions generally are better today than they were in 1948. But there is still great room for improvement, and the Civic Association is working day and night to bring about greater improvement. That's why it needs your support and your help. It needs more members. Its drive in 1949 was for 200,000 members, and the drive fell very short of its goal. And it's expecting by the end of 1950 that its goal will have been reached, and its hand will thereby have been strengthened. So join the Civic Association tomorrow, won't you? Its offices are located at 261, West 125th Street, room 303. Or you may telephone Riverside 9-2024. You'll find someone there ready and willing to take your application, and membership fees are only $1. I know you'll join immediately. Now, back again to Fred Weaver and Harlem, USA. Thank you, George. One of the chief topics of current concern to the residents of Harlem, and indeed of the entire city, is that of housing. We all know that housing shortage is not limited to any one community, but I think we can agree that the record will support the statement that the rat problem is one which is peculiarly a Harlem problem. It seems that every time the city announces a campaign against rats, the number of complaints of rat bites increases rather than decreases. For example, in 1947, there were 423 reported rat bites. In 1948, when the city launched a campaign against rats, the number of complaints increased to more than 500. In 1949, when $100,000 was appropriated to initiate a rodent-controlled campaign, the number of reported rat bites cases had increased to 620. So naturally, Harlem is alarmed. Last year, we brought five victims of rat bites to our Harlem, USA program to describe to our radio audience in person how it felt to be bitten by rats at night. Theirs was a pathetic story, and today it could be told by more than 1,000 people who have felt to gnaw rats upon their bodies since the rodent-controlled campaign has been initiated. Tonight, we have invited three people who have shown a tremendous interest in this problem and the problem of housing generally to discuss it for us, and we are glad to have them here. First, we have Charles Abrams, a lawyer and housing expert who has just reported in the Post the result of a survey he completed on a citywide basis. I'm sure he will have some interesting information for us. And then we have James E. Fuller, chairman of the 16th A.D. Liberal Party and a veteran newspaper man who has conducted for many months a campaign to bestir the city into doing something about rodent control and the housing problem generally in Harlem. Joining with them will be Reverend Donald Benedict, pastor of the East Harlem Protestant Parish. Reverend Benedict, coming from the East Side, has long been active in seeking to improve housing standards for the people of his community. He accompanied Mr. Abrams on his recent tour of Harlem for the Post Series, and I'm certain he's qualified to add much to the discussion this evening. Mr. Abrams, how about starting off by telling us some of the things you saw on your tour and give us the general picture of housing conditions in Harlem as you saw them? Well, I've seen many slums, not only in the United States, but abroad. And I will say that the conditions in Harlem since the shortage are the worst I've ever seen. And it's affecting the whole city. I mean, it's not merely indigenous only to Harlem. The statistics show just what effect it's having, not only on the Harlem residents, but on the whole city. For instance, the rat bites you talked about, Mr. Weaver, reported rat bites. That means that where you have 500 reported rat bites, there are about 2,000 rat bites altogether because there are only about one in four that are actually reported. Those are the more serious rat bites. In other words, we have somewhere between 2,000 and 2,500 rat bites in this city every year. And you know what that means when a rat just comes in at night, gets into the crib, and reaches for the baby's mouth where the milk is left, and that's where the rat starts, at the mouth or at the finger, wherever there was food left. Now, that isn't all. Your tuberculosis rate of children between 5 and 9 years old in East Harlem is four times as high there as it is in the rest of the city. Now, that's an incredible rate considering the fact that the tuberculosis rate has been going down throughout the city. We found that despite all of the optimistic talk of the health department that the rates have now increased by 20%. They had been going down. Now they've increased by 20%. There are so many other things. For example, half the cases of hookworm, which is a disease largely due to bad plumbing, originated in Harlem in the month of February. And that's the same situation with disease after disease. But it isn't only that. It's the mental havoc we cause, particularly because of overcrowding. Yeah, well, I was going to say that I think that that's one of the worst problems. For instance, the Welfare Council not so long ago reported that if all of the people in the United States lived as closely together as we do in East Harlem, that the entire population of the United States could be placed in one half of the area of New York City. You know, on one block there, one of the blocks you reported the other day in the Post articles, there were 4,000 people that we know are living on one block. That means two sides of one street between two avenues. Well, Reverend Benedict, what does that mean in terms of a particular family? Well, one can never overestimate the damage that's done in terms of lack of privacy. I know there are a good many of our families, I believe, that children all the way through adolescence are sleeping three in a bed. Well, it's hard to estimate the psychological scars that are incurred in this kind of overcrowding. I know our health officer up there not so long ago found 17 people living in three rooms. Dr. Benedict, when I wrote that story, I had calls from some of my friends who said that it was just impossible that 17 children were living in this vault and in the coal bins that we mentioned and were paying $50 a month. You were with me on that tour. Was I exaggerating that story? Not a bit. You know, I read all of those articles and when I got through, I told a number of my friends that actually I'd never seen a reporter be quite so specific about what he said because you really didn't exaggerate one bit. In fact, I was afraid you didn't exaggerate enough because what we saw was every bit that you portrayed. You see, Mr. Weaver, when Don Benedict and I were on this trip, we came across this situation on 100th Street where 25 people were living in this coal cellar, two families living in each of two coal bins under the city sidewalk and they were paying $50 a month for rent for this and there were 17 children in this coal cellar, 17 children, one of them born eight days before. All of them had coals, one of them had just been taken to the hospital and they were paying $50 a month for this. Well, I'm not surprised at that, Mr. Abrams, because the Civic Association has similar cases to deal with almost daily. Mr. Fuller, what has been your experience? You've been interested in this problem. I know you have been interested particularly in the rodent control program. What would you have to say about that? Well, I've lived in Harlem for 11 years and as hardened as I had become, I'm even more appalled these days by what is happening. I'm mainly interested in the rat control program. I've tried repeatedly during the past few months to get some sort of a report from the Department of Housing. A rodent control program was begun on March 15, 1949 and J. Raymond Jones, the Deputy Commissioner of Housing, was made the head of it. I can get no answer except evasion and nothing seems to smoke out any of the city officials on the rodent control program. I myself have watched the, seen the victims of rat bites. I talked with a young mother whose eight-month-old son's thumb almost had been severed by the sharp teeth of a huge rat. A young college graduate told me that his fraternity headquarters are visited frequently by these rats that display all the boldness and size of a cat. When you speak of J. Raymond Jones as the Deputy Commissioner of Housing, I thought that through, largely through his efforts, he had been given a hundred thousand dollars or his department had been given a hundred thousand dollars to do something about the extermination of rats in Harlem. That is correct. Twenty-two rat inspectors were appointed. Their salaries took up most of the money, about seventy-two thousand dollars. Clerical help and incidentals the rest. Now, I haven't met one rat inspector, but if J. Raymond Jones wants to know where the rats are, I personally will take him on a tour to show him where these rats are. Well, let me give you an instance of this, Mr. Fuller, about these rat bites and the rats. This we didn't report in the New York Post. We couldn't because the editor thought it was too horrible and that the people couldn't take it. Personally, I disagree. I think the people can take these things, but I called up an exterminator and asked him what the situation was as far as rats were concerned, and he said that, well, only the other day he had taken three barrels full out of one building. So I said, well, the next time you get a catch like that, if you can get it in the next two or three days, let me know. And he called me up about two days later and he said he was terribly disappointed. He only had one barrel full. And so I sent up the photographer and the photographer took the pictures of the rats all dumped out of the barrel lying on the sidewalk. And we got back this picture and we wouldn't print it because it was just too horrible. But that is an instance of what happens every day when a rat bites a baby. It's no longer news above 125th Street, Mr. Fuller. Nor below 125th Street, I might add. Along this line of rodent control thing, we began a campaign in East Harlem about a year ago under this rodent control program. And we, through the East Harlem District Health Council, handed in 1,200 violations on a little over 10 blocks in an area of our section of the city. Now, of those 1,200 violations, we sent cards back later on asking the people if inspectors had come. And in less than 30%, inspectors had been there. And in less than 19%, anything had been done about their apartment. Now, I think this indicates something about our Department of Housing and Buildings, whether it's to be laid to inefficiency, whether it's to be laid to just lack of personnel, I don't know. But the simple fact is that unless we get some kind of adequate housing inspection in East Harlem and in Harlem proper, the hardship that we're working on our people is going to grow by leaps and bounds. Reverend Benedict, you speak of your difficulty in seeing these inspectors. I have found that finding an inspector is about as rare as finding a $3 bill. But these vacant lots interest me also that you see so many of them in Harlem. They're heaped high with all filth and refuse, and they're ideal surroundings for the nesting and feeding of rats. I don't understand why, inasmuch as they are a menace to the health of the tenants of the adjoining buildings, that the proper city authority couldn't order the removal of this dirt and debris. Well, Mr. Fuller, right there, last year when we had five of the actual rat victims on our radio program and they told some hard tales of how it felt to be bitten by rats at night, three of the five who appeared on our program were renting from the city. They were renting from the city housing authority and paying their rent to the housing authority. In instances like that, don't you think that the city, it's their job to clean up their own property and rid it of its garbage and whatnot? Decidely. Of course, I'd like to ask this question of you men. I saw the Department of Housing and Buildings and asked them why they couldn't solve this problem and their answer was that they didn't have enough inspectors and I felt that that was one of the places where we could make a correction and get an appropriation for more inspectors. Of course, undoubtedly, efficiency has to be improved as well but certainly to take care of a million three hundred thousand apartments when a department has only 150 or 175 field inspectors it's certainly not enough at a time like this when they also have to take care of complaints. Isn't that right, Mr. Weaver? Well, of course, the other side of that is that after you get an inspector out and he makes an inspection and reports of violations the next problem is to get the landlord into court. Now, we find that where we get inspections many times we can't get the landlord in court or if we do get the landlord in court he's maybe fined fifty dollars and away he goes and his house remains the same as before. Now, it's the legal side of this thing too that must be increased, it seems to me, in the department. Yeah, and isn't it also true, Reverend, that in addition to that, if you could possibly get the city, some of these landlords just haven't got the money to fix the apartments. If you could get the state legislature to pass a bill authorizing the city to make the improvements, at least to close up the holes where these rats migrate, which isn't an expensive job, and file it as a first lien, recover it from the owner, it would be helpful to the owner as well as helpful to the tenants. And I think such a law, if properly drawn, would be constitutional. Now, all of those things would help. Don't you think so, Mr. Fuller? I do. But getting back to our eternal rats, I want to leave something shocking for the audience to hear. That is, the young females breed when only three or four months... You mean the young female rats. That's right. Yeah, I'll see that. A pair of rats breeding uninterruptedly and without deaths would, at the end of three years, be increased to 359,709,482. Well, there have been various estimates. Mayor, acting Mayor Impeletere once made an estimate that there were eight million rats in New York City. I think that's been exaggerated. I think, actually, I saw another estimate which ranges as little as 250,000, but 250,000 biting rats are a great number of rats considering that a rat takes more than one bite. But there are other things, Don, about this overcrowding. Have you seen any real experiences such as those we saw where there were 25 human beings living in coal bins? Well, I don't think I've seen anything quite that bad. We had another one we visited that same day, you remember, where something like 30 people were sharing one toilet together and one washbowl, and some of them were paying up to $52 a month for two rooms, which were about, oh, eight by ten, maybe? And the two rooms were separated, and that was a government employee. He was working for the city but couldn't get an apartment. And I remember, as far as the stores in Harlem were concerned, all of them have been opened up, and as many as three families are living in a store, so that they put up these curtains without ventilation of any sort, and in there you have the children living in these windowless stores that are boarded up with old political posters. Well, they serve a purpose anyway in that they bear political posters if they don't supply decent housing. Well, our people have to live somewhere. I guess that's the answer. Yeah. Well, the other thing that I've seen also are the statistics on tuberculosis. There are 2,000 cases of tuberculosis today, a lot of it originating there, which indicate 2,000 cases of open lesions, that is, causing actual infection to people throughout the city. Thank you very much, Mr. Abrams, Reverend Benedict, and Mr. Fuller for this enlightening discussion, and I'm sure we will all benefit from what we have heard here tonight. I wish we could hear some more of it, but time is running out, and so we return once again to the recorded music of Martin Gould's 100-piece string orchestra as they conclude our program with a song from the Cotton Club Parade of 1933, and it's called Stormy Weather. the ... THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END Thank you, Martin Gould and the others of our guests who are participating on our Harlem USA program tonight. This is your host, Fred Weaver, leaving you with this thought. Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty. Good night. You've been listening to Harlem USA, the program with an aim. Brought to you each Monday at 9.30 by the Community of Harlem Civic Association. Be sure to stop by its offices any day except Sunday. We invite you to be with us again next Monday at this same time, 9.30 until 10 o'clock. Music by Martin Gould on tonight's program was recorded. Now, this is George Willard bidding you a pleasant good night, everybody. Stay tuned to WMCA at 5.70. Should you file a New York State income tax report? The answer is yes, if you are single and had net income of $1,000 or more last year. Or if you are married and together with your husband or wife had net income of $2,500 or more. Your tax is payable at 90% of the normal rates. Deadline for filing your 1949 income tax report is Saturday, April 15th. Federer is okay. Heard menjadi bankn viable activist or business owners. So, you can find one of to have no country. The saying is that each company with an adult would be gebruçar this week at 19. Syndrome can divid Для khus. Productions can be hash融מ. Predator is a full range of shopping tax日 at a sector to exercise. That's why you choose aöllig 50.36. That would be your condition at home. So, you toysz wir denied THAT THE F esaiat button. Our child Example is a noun andFinish Social Cups. That's why I don't believe we have anything else. Don't believe it is with your self-recerativeical rule. Para now if you are eligible for or who they should win them. You can spend our debts in the money Lathy Packie University website for use 4 to 5 a year ago.