Wait a minute. Historical characters, history. Who's interested in all that? Especially about Brooklyn. No, I wouldn't say that. Now, wait a minute. There are thousands upon thousands of people who are interested in statistics about Brooklyn. Who are you? I'm Sidney Asher. I'm president of the Society for the Prevention of Disparaging Remarks About Brooklyn. Sidney Asher, president of the Society for what? The Society for the Prevention of Disparaging Remarks About Brooklyn. And what do you do? We try to prevent disparaging remarks about Brooklyn. Oh, you mean if somebody says something bad about Brooklyn, you walk up to them and conk them over the head? Well, we don't go that far, although we're often tempted to. Oh, well, how do you operate? Well, we have various committees. There are committees whose job it is to report on disparaging remarks about Brooklyn made in motion pictures. And then it goes for radio and the press and the books. Well, gee, there have been a lot of disparaging remarks about Brooklyn that I've heard in the movies. Your society has covered them, right? That's right. We particularly resent the picturization of a Brooklynite as a dumbbell and a fellow who says these, dems, and those. I see. The recent Brooklyn movie that I remember is A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. Did that win your okay? Yes, that was all right. That was all right. You like that. Well, how many people do you think there are in your organization, Mr. Asher? Well, we've distributed over half a million membership cards. Half a million membership cards. And are there any dues? No dues. What do you have to do to be a member? Just love Brooklyn. Just love Brooklyn. Well, I'm sure there are a lot of people who would like to be a member of your organization if they aren't already. Tell us, how did you get started? Where did all this come from? Well, about ten years ago, I got sick and tired of hearing disparaging remarks about Brooklyn. And with tongue in cheek, I organized a society, but everybody took it seriously. Especially the Brooklynites, huh? That's right. What happened then? Well, we really got great growth in membership during the war. Boys, Brooklyn boys who were stationed all over the world, were lonesome for Brooklyn. And they began to realize that Brooklyn was the finest spot in the world, and they would write to the society. Your society must have received many interesting letters from your members and non-members. Well, during the war, I mean, even at the worst of the war, when people were so discouraged, if you had read these letters, you'd know that we couldn't lose the war. The spirit of the boys was so wonderful. The things that were uppermost on their minds, even when they were being wounded, they would write for things like a street sign of Flatbush and Church, or pictures of Coney Island, or Flatbush Water. Did you have anything to do with sending them all of this? Yes, we sent them the water. We sent, as some boys wrote, for Brooklyn dirt. They wanted to put their feet in Brooklyn soil. The Don was request, but we filled them all. I understand that Brooklyn is also known as the city of churches. Is that because so many of its people attend church, or because there are so many churches there? There are more God-fearing people in Brooklyn than any other part of New York City. You mean church worshippers? That's right. And I think the people in Brooklyn are really out of this world. They're different. In what way? They're friendlier. I think there's a friendlier atmosphere in Brooklyn. People are so friendly in Brooklyn that if you're a stranger and you come to the borough and you ask somebody for directions, even if they don't know, they don't like to hurt your feelings, so they'll direct you, even if they're misdirecting you. Do you find that there are any other societies in any of the other boroughs which are similar to your own? No, there aren't. I think the Bronx tried to start one, but it failed miserably. I don't think they have the community spirit that the people in Brooklyn do. I see. Is this a membership card for your organization? That's right. You said you love Brooklyn, so you're entitled to membership. And it says? The Society for the Prevention of Disparaging Remarks About Brooklyn certifies that, and then there's a space for your name, is henceforth a qualified member and entitled to all privileges pertinent thereto. Signed, Sidney H. Ash, your president. We love people who love Brooklyn. What privileges is this entitled to hold her to? Well, uh... Does it get them on a committee, or...? There's a story that Arthur Cohn, a Universal producer, told me. He had been making shorts. He produced a short Brooklyn USA. Did not win some kind of award. Yeah, it won the Academy Award last year. He went to Canada with some of his crew to make some location shots, and when they tried across the border to come back to the United States, they were asked for identification papers. In a joke, he showed his membership card, and he was okay. His cameraman was right behind him, and he showed his driver's license and, uh, oh, a few other papers, and they wouldn't accept that. Well, it has some legal value then, apparently. Well, it set a precedent. I don't know how they feel about following that up. Is there anything else you'd like to tell your fellow members in your society? Well, just that if anybody loves Brooklyn, and they'd like to join the society, they can, uh, write to the society and care of the station, and we'll be glad to send them a membership card. Thank you, Sidney H. Asher, President of the Society for the Prevention of Disparaging Remarks about Brooklyn.