As Asking Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincennau and Pelletieri presided at the organization and opening session of the United Nations at Flushing Meadows on the occasion of its first meeting. A distinguished company has turned out to be with the Mayor this morning. Mrs. Franklin Delano Roosevelt will be a speaker, the Honorable Benjamin Cohen, Mr. Clark Eichelberger, and John Golden, who is chairman for the Mayor's Committee for United Nations Days Activity, with Mrs. Vincennau and Pelletieri as co-chairman, is very active in the program as well today, and all of these people will address you in the course of the program. There's a few moments now for congratulations and solicitations to each other here in front of the Rostons. We're just waiting now for Mr. Whelan to ask for quiet and present the regular order of programs. The program itself is under the direct supervision of the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, a president of the Mayor's Committee for reception. The weatherman didn't turn out to be such a good friend because of his plan to possibly hold this ceremony outside City Hall, but it was sprinkling a bit and a bit rainy, and it wasn't advisable, of course, under these circumstances, to have the schoolchildren out there in the rain. However, we've had intermittent sunlight and a few drops of rain, and we're just waiting now. The Police Orchestra is the musical organization furnishing the music here in the Council Chamber. And now we're... A great many notable people, I couldn't hope to name them all, are also in seats here in the Council Chamber in City Hall, a little to the side of the Rostons, and the best is very well represented on the other side of the Rostons, and, of course, the entire Council Chamber itself is filled with the youngsters from the 90 junior high schools. Not all of them, but a large delegation. These 90 junior high schools, under the supervision of Miss Mary Kennedy of the Board of Education, have turned in ten essays, prize-winning essays, for which they'll receive Golden Medal Awards. And then the one prize essay, Why I Believe in the United Nations, will receive a $100 award. Maybe you can hear some of that music. Maybe you could hear some of that music. That's quatro people, engineering ones. And how do you know something to actually do. It just gives heed a tenth of l otra ELA's treey, the platform for you can do that. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. The procession came into the council chamber of many noted guests, but the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeller-Terry, has not arrived yet. Mr. Whelan may go ahead with the ceremony. He's standing there, but he's not doing anything about starting. We have a very distinguished company here for you, and for the benefit of those who tuned in late, we'll have the pleasure of hearing our distinguished lady, Mrs. Francis Franklin Delano Roosevelt, I beg your pardon. Mrs. Roosevelt will be among the speakers. The Honorable Clark Akelberger. Thank you. John Golden is chairman of the UN Activities for the Mayor's Committee in this particular week of observation of the sixth annual birthday of the United Nations, and Mrs. Vincent R. Impeller-Terry is co-chairman with Mr. Golden. There will be very interesting discussions. The mayor will proclaim in solemn proclamation today, October 24th, as United Nations Day, and the entire week from the 21st to the 27th is dedicated to the United Nations. New York is singularly honored by the fact that the United Nations and its headquarters here in our wonder city has made New York City the capital of the world in the United Nations setup. And as the saying has been quoted from time to time, God made us neighbors, justice will make us friends. And the program of the United Nations is to elucidate all the constraining factors that are restricting our friendship to the point where they have not as yet reached a complete understanding. But that is the hope and the aspiration of everybody, every civilized person, and the opportunity to bring those around to the opinion that in the good of all rests the happiness and the salvation of all. And we are gradually and fast coming to that viewpoint, even though the scene may be a bit complicated from time to time. And now Mr. Whelan is calling for quiet, and in just a moment we'll hear his voice. The Honorable Grover A. Whelan. Mr. Lord Mayor. Mr. Chairman of the rupees. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. The Honorable Grover A. Whalen. On this, the sixth anniversary of the United Nations, the city is greatly honored by the presence here today, Mrs. Franklin Delano Roosevelt. United States Delegate to the General Assembly of the United Nations and United States Member of Human Rights Commission, Mrs. Roosevelt. My part of this celebration is just to read a prayer written by Mr. John Golden for United Nations, says, God of the measureless universe, creator of man's conscience, to thee in this, our servant prayer for peace, we lift our voices in unison. We, Americans of every faith, of every creed joined together, pleading for truth, justice, and charity among men. We pray for thy omnipotent aid in this hour of imperiled civilization, that thou shalt cast out forever from human source, that flaming intolerance which makes for war and breeds bloody aggression, that the advocates of war shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. We pray to thee for the restoration of concord and amity among all the peoples of the earth, that all persons recognize the world will be the liberty due to religion, and for the renewal of a way of life that is fruitful of great and good work. This, O Lord, is our servant prayer for the of the Lord, and this our mingled tribute to thy everlasting life. This, O Lord, is our servant prayer for the Lord, and this our mingled tribute for the Lord, and our mercy. Amen. Now, Mr. Whalen is just waiting for a few people to be seated, and we'll hear his voice. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen is represented here today by the Assistant Secretary General and Acting Secretary General, Benjamin Cohn. Mr. Cohn. Mr. Cohn. Mr. Pelletieri, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, may I at the very outset express the appreciation of the United Nations for the mayor being present here today after his very long absence from the town and his very recent arrival yesterday in New York. We are happy that he is here with us because he has been an unflinching friend, a fellow worker for the United Nations, and one who has spoken the spirit and the mind of the people of New York in support of the ideals and the activities of our great organization. As in the case of individuals, commemoration of an early birthday is always an occasion for hope. The same holds true for the United Nations. Our organization is just now, in its extraordinary clothes, trying to walk by itself in a world rent by conflict and disagreement, and finding that everywhere friendly hands come to support her and to help her along the difficult way. For the United Nations is not merely a political organ dealing with conflicts, but also a constructive institution which has at heart above anything else, the welfare of the individual human being. The development and the progress of those institutions which give meaning to the life of individuals and which lift peoples above their everyday toil to a greater hope and a higher achievement. In six years, the United Nations has grown in the bosom of this great metropolitan center. Its building will be finished next year. But already as a prayer in action, the Secretariat Building Glass and Marble stands as one of the most important landmarks in the island of Manhattan. Towards it, the eyes of the world are turned today. But towards it, the affection of this great cosmopolitan city of New York comes in constant ways, as shown by the interest of the school, the organization, and the authorities for everything that has to do with the building up of our organization. We know that many of the hopes which were held in the hearts of those who were present at the signing of the San Francisco charter six years ago in San Francisco have not been achieved. But to those who know exactly how limited the jurisdiction of the United Nations is under the terms of the charter, the achievements of the institution are short of miraculous in many fields. It is creating an awareness of unity among all the peoples of the world and giving it to those who never had much of a hope of rising above the low standards of living and of the restricted systems of human rights. The assurance that one day they will be able to join the great family of mankind in terms of equality with all peoples. I mean equality of economic well-being, of social progress, of freedom, of independence, of human rights. In this day, and in this great city of New York, which is probably the largest cosmopolitan aggregation of peoples anywhere in the world, the United Nations finds itself at home. At home and speaking for all of you and for all of the peoples of the world on behalf of a much better future for all peoples and for all nations. May I say today, Mr. Mayor, I convey to you on behalf of the Secretary General that we appreciate deeply everything that you and the local government under you has been doing and does. To make the United Nations not only feel at home in New York, but to represent in a large measure the ideals of the peoples of the world which are now citizens of this great metropolis. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. As the President of the Council of the City of New York, as Acting Mayor, and as Mayor of the City of New York, the next speaker was in the forefront of urging a constructive approach to the United Nations to the construction problems and to the construction problems that followed their selection of New York City as its home. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you, his honor, Mayor Vincent R. M. Palaszari. Mr. Waylon, ladies and gentlemen, it is a particular privilege for me to participate in this sixth annual United Nations birthday ceremony here at City Hall. I take particular privilege in it because I have been a strong supporter of the United Nations ever since its inception and I have been a strong supporter of the United Nations ever since its inception. And particularly because I have the great honor as Acting Mayor on October 2017, as Acting Mayor, of the Year's Day, and I have been a strong supporter of the United Nations ever since its inception. in it because I have been a strong supporter of the United Nations ever since its inception, and particularly because I have the great honor as acting mayor on October 23, 1946, to give the welcoming address for the city to the formal opening of the General Assembly of the United Nations Organization in Flushing Meadow Park. Much has transpired since then, and even though the world is perhaps just as far from peace today as it was then, great strides have been made in convincing more and more peoples and more and more nations that the hopes of the world for peace can only come to the United Nations. As John Golden's beautiful prayer so eloquently states, peace will come to us only if we have faith in the Almighty, which is the true basis for trust among men. It is my privilege as chief executive of this city to read the proclamation designating the period of October 21st to October 27, 1951, as United Nations Week, as United Nations Week, as United Nations Week, and Wednesday, October 24, as United Nations Day. Proclamation. Whereas the sixth annual observance of the United Nations Week takes place this year from October 21st through October 27, culminating in the official observance of Wednesday, October 24, as United Nations Day. And whereas the United Nations General Assembly has here to fall, by appropriate action, set aside October 24th as a world holiday to be observed in all member nations of the United Nations. And whereas New York City is the world capital, having the permanent headquarters located here, and is an international meeting place. And whereas the success of the United Nations depends in large measure upon the effectiveness of public opinion of a well-informed citizenry, and whereas the success of the United Nations depends upon effective support by the United States of the United Nations, and whereas for the past year the United Nations and 22 other freedom-loving countries have been active in the fight to stem aggression in Korea, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelletari, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby proclaim the period of October 21 through October 27, 1951, as United Nations Week, and Wednesday, October 24th, as United Nations Day in New York City, and urge every New Yorker to join the rest of the people in our country in paying homage to those men and women who have fought and died in Korea, and to their families who have valiantly shared their sacrifice. And as a declaration to the world that American citizens are united in support of the United Nations, it is further urged that during this period our citizens participate in public forums, discussions, and other appropriate demonstrations, along with newspapers, radio, and television stations of our city, so that the principles may be widely disseminated. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 18th day of September, 1951, signed, Vincent R. Impelletari, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's great pleasure for me to present the next speaker, who is serving as chairman of UN Day, a distinguished author, playwright, and one of the finest citizens of the City of New York, John L. Golden. Thank you. Thank you, John L. Golden. And I'll be glad to talk to you. Thank you. My dear children, most of this audience looks to me as if you were school children. As a matter of fact, I don't see anybody in the room who is old, certainly not approximating my age. And so I want to talk particularly to the kids because this party is, in my opinion, something that they got to remember, they'll want to remember for many years to come. And I want to talk about a little prize essay that I put together, organized, originated by which I asked that genius of the Board of Education, Mary Kennedy, to whom I can't offer enough thanks for the job she did. I asked Miss Kennedy to take on the job of asking 30,000 youngsters. That's quite a few, isn't it? 30,000 youngsters, if they'd like to enter a prize essay of around 100 words on the subject of why I am for the United Nations. Well, only the good Lord knows how many thousands answered that thing because the school teachers had to spend nights and days. And if I had my way, I'd pay them all for this extracurricular service a great deal of money. School teachers ought to get more. School teachers are a great deal of money. I'm glad to have that endorsement of your applause, and after that they still should get more. School teachers are a great deal of money. Because where would we be? Where would we be if it wasn't for our educational system? Monkeys, if we weren't, if we didn't know what we're going about. At any rate, we had some great number of children apply and join the essay contest. And the teachers went through those essays laboriously and finally selected what I asked them to bring to me no more than 10. At this moment, those 10 kids don't know which of them is the winner. And up to a very short time ago, practically last night, neither did I. It may be interesting to note that we had 10 kids who had written essays that were so close to alike. I don't mean alike in their formation, alike in their language, alike in their treatment of the subject. They were just so darn good, all of them, that none of the committee in charge of that job knew who to give it to. And it was practically decided by two of our most important First Ladies. I think it would be very interesting to you to know that as soon as the First Lady of New York, Mrs. Elizabeth Impeller Terry, got ashore, she, as co-chairman of this United Nations Day, got to my office, got through to my office on the phone and wanted to know what was doing about the prizes for the kids of the high schools. And I said, I'll bring them up to you tonight because we're close to a tie. And this, yesterday afternoon, it was Mrs. Roosevelt and Mrs. Impeller Terry who finally swung the vote, as you politicians put it. And they decided on one little girl. She's here in the room. She'll come up here. On the other hand, then, we had decided to give only one prize. $100 for 100 words. Pretty good pay, a dollar word. I want those kids to come up here because each one of them is going to get a medal. And I'd like it pretty much if those kids could remember all the rest of their lives that that medal was handed to them by no less a person, but the great ambassador representing New York who has had a long trek and gone around almost half the world saying good things about New York to some other people and it wasn't bad news for them to hear. I'd like that man to hand them those medals. There's been no preparation for this matter. But would you do that, Mr. Mayor? Then I'll call up here the names of the kids who have won those prizes. And while they're coming up, I'd like to say how much we ought to be proud of having this thing run by the ubiquitous, the perennial Grover Whalen. I can't miss a chance to tell you people that since I knew him as a child assistant to Mayor Highland. I mean, it's so long ago he couldn't have been any more than eight years old then. He was working for Highland then, he's working for Impelitary now. And then all that time, go over the record of those years and you can't find once, once, that he ever missed the boat. Oh yes, he did once, didn't he? But that's all. And that's a pretty good record over that great many years for a man to miss a boat only once in all those years. And now if the kids will come up, their names are Miss Linda Lynch. Public school, high school, junior high school, 115. Come up fast, kids. Come up here. Now Miss Linda Lynch happens to be the young girl who is going to be the recipient of a $100 check. John Golden, noted theatrical manager, is now introducing Miss Lynch to the Mayor since he summoned her to the platform. She's a very pretty blonde girl dressed in dark blue, very shapely, and up to the idea that New York is the center of fashion because she's well dressed. And now the mayor is pinning the medal on Linda Lynch. And as John Golden explained, the other essays were so similar that Mrs. Roosevelt and Mrs. Impelitary, deciding the vote, couldn't make up their mind, so they decided to give them all medals. To give a little money, not too much, but something that I think you'll be able to use very nicely, to the nine other seconds. There was no third or fourth or fifth. They're all seconds. The nine other seconds. Come up here now. Come up fast. Uh, Boris Shor... What? What? What? I'm busy now extricating the youngsters from the group here in the Council chamber so they can get up to the rostrum. Mr. Osborne has come to the situation and solved it, and the police band and the police, ever appropriate, are playing school days as background music, as background music while these nine seconds who turned in equally fine essays, so much so that Mrs. Roosevelt and Mrs. Impeletere had a most difficult time in bringing in the votes, as Mr. Golden said. The photographers are certainly right on the job seeing that you get a full pictorial history of this event. And these smartly dressed, bright looking youngsters from the junior high schools who were organized in this essay contest by Mary Kennedy of the Board of Education who received such a high tribute from John Golden in the management of this contest in 90 junior high schools, comprising 30,000 students. Well, that was a task, and it simmered down to the one award to Miss Lynch for the 100-word essay at a dollar award and $100 in cash and a gold medal. And the others did so excellently that it didn't seem possible to ignore their efforts. So Mr. Golden arranged that they'll all receive medals too, and the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, is now distributing the medals. A little joke about Mr. Whelan missing the boat. He had some difficulties with the prodigal down the bay yesterday. He was there, but because of the type of boat he was on, it didn't match up to somebody else's conception of the kind of a boat it should be. And Mr. Whelan did not contact the mayor yesterday until he got up to the pier. It's a strange situation when Mr. Whelan has arranged so generously and so politely and with such immediate prodigal the arrangement for everybody else to board boats that he himself should be a victim of any picadolo of, shall we say, red tape. Robert Stauber. Robert Stauber. Robert Stauber. High School 164. Any of you 164 kids here, give them a hand. Ann Silverstein. Ann Silverstein. Ann Silverstein. There's a check for Stauber and a check. Ann Silverstein. 210. Wilbert Williams. Come on up Wilbert. Good boy too, a beautiful set. Mr. Golden's calling the names of the students. We asked him soon so you'd know who they were. Shirley Lopatin. 30. Anthony DiCicco. 73. That's his school, not his age. Patricia Stample. Patricia Stample. A check, give him a check in the middle. Patricia Stample. Next is Shirley Orenstein. 55. Mayor Pelletieri is receiving each youngster personally. I'm greeting them. Sheila Merle Citron. 65. And the last of the 10 is Rosalind Feldman. 30. There you are. There you are. Rosalind in the dark blue dress and the light blue hair ribbon. I'm a man. I believe you. You've got a speaker. Thank you. Now Mr. Golden retires. Mr. Whelan takes the microphone to continue the program. The Honorable Groveray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception. Mr. Clark Eichelberger, will address you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Clark Eichelberger, will address you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the Chairman of United Nations Week, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stine Krause is addressing and the President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mr. Stine Krause is addressing a group of businessmen in Upper New York State. So he asked me if I would appear for a moment to ask the President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mr. Stine Krause, Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Stine Krause is addressing a group of businessmen in Upper New York State. And so he asked me if I would appear for a moment to give you greetings on behalf of of some 100 national organizations that are cooperating in the program for United Nations Week. And I think I might stretch a point and also give you greetings from William Waymack, chairman of the Citizens Committee for United Nations Day, who is in Washington today, helping receive the veterans from 20 countries fighting in Korea, who arrived today to be received by the president, and I believe will be here the first of the week. All of the organizations that are devoting their time to support of the United Nations are deeply appreciative of Mr. Whalen and the great public support that he has mobilized year after year in support of the United Nations events, of the mayors of the city of New York that, with their cooperation, have succeeded in making this city the capital of the world. And I think in many years to come as the great problems of peace and war are met and settled for the happiness of all of us, greater and greater acclaim and fame will come to this city. And the mayors, Mayor Impelotari, who honors us with his presence today, will go down in history not only as the mayor of the city of New York, but as a mayor who helped very much to locate the capital of the world here. May I conclude by saying just this word? At the close of the Revolutionary War, our forefathers set out from New York City and Washington and other places, scarcely Washington than I should have said Philadelphia, made their great trek westward to develop this great land. Their means of travel and communication were no different than those the children of Israel used in a migration centuries before. But from the time that our forefathers set their eyes westward to today, all of the means of travel and communication, all of the application of science to our way of life has come upon us and changed our lives very materially. Now if you read the agenda before the forthcoming General Assembly, and you read the news in the paper this morning, and you do it without a historical perspective, the picture looks very grim. If you do it with a historical perspective, the picture looks very encouraging indeed. Within the memory of the oldest man in this audience, the population of the world is more than doubled. Not only do we have the great problems that science has forced upon us. The Trigvali points out in his report issued two weeks ago that since the United Nations was created, a fourth of the world has won its independence. And three-fourths of the world struggling to throw off imperialism and colonialism and to strike for a better economic order of things. And the problems that the United Nations meeting today are the problems that are the result of of the growth of the spirit of freedom and the growth of modern science. And would it not for the United Nations to help nations adjust themselves to freedom through the orderly process of community life? Would it not for the United Nations helping nations achieve economic, uh, opportunity without the explosiveness of world revolution? We'd be in a very bad way today. And so as our delegates leave tomorrow, Mrs. Roosevelt and the others that will represent our country at the General Assembly in Paris. We know that they are facing the greatest array of problems that ever came before a parliamentary body. But they are problems that if we do not meet, the world grim, uh, the outlook will be very grim. They are problems that if the United Nations meets, can give this world a degree of human happiness, a freedom from war of economic opportunity, that we older ones in the audience may not realize in its full, but the younger people will. And I'm glad that Mr. Golden saw fit to give them the prizes because they are the ones that will enjoy that which the older generation are working for at the present time. And so we say Godspeed to the American delegation and United Nations officials, and we will welcome them back because next year the General Assembly can be held in the new buildings on 42nd Street for which our city fathers, for which our city fathers are so much responsible. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger. I noticed that, uh, acting president of the council, Mr. Joseph Scharkey, has just entered the room and will we please come to the platform. Come up here. Come up. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . represent our own contributions and to the ideals for which our nation stands. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The ever-alerted photographers are now photographing this event and the presentation of the flag. Apparently, Miss Lynch forgot a medal over there on the counter because Merrim Pelletieri has just stood up and come over and handed it to her, like an humble citizen hardly, considering the fact that he's the chief magistrate of the city, but he always has that wonderful touch of friendliness. Now the photographers are busy with this picture with the flags. While we're speaking of flags, may we say that the council chamber is beautifully decorated today with chrysanthemums and palms, and the Department of Public Works has erected the flags of all member nations of the United Nations, strewn along the golden railing of the balcony here in the council chamber. And as we look at this magnificent room, this beautiful room, the life-size portraits of George Washington and the $350,000 portrait of the Marquis de Lafayette painted by a great communications man, Mr. Morris, who invented the telegraph, who had these two great accomplishments, an artist and a scientist, and all the other factors that make this building such a wonderful place for a ceremonial of any kind, we realize the greatness and the grandeur of our forefathers, and if we may be conceited enough to say our grandfathers and great-grandfathers, and realize that anyone who could create this kind of an atmosphere with the limited techniques of the time at which this building was erected... For the benefit of the radio audience... ...in 1811, why, Mr. Whelan... ...mayor and Miss Impelteria being photographed, receiving the flag of the United Nations, Mrs. Impelteria. Thank you, Mr. Whelan, Mr. Mayor, and Angelina Leone. I think this flag represents something very fine to us today. This little girl just told me that she and four of her co-workers spent four days working on this flag. We had another flag once made by one woman, Betsy Ross. When Mr. Golden spoke to you, he looked over the heads of the older generation and he said, You kids, I resented that just a little bit, although you are kids, but to me you represent something much more important. In this country we have many elements, but I think the most important one is the younger element. Mr. Eichelberger said that the older generation will work for the success of the United Nations, so that the younger generation may share in the benefits. I agree with that, but I also think this too. After reading the essays that these youngsters prepared, setting forth their own thoughts and their own ideals, the older members of the generation have a fine background and a fine bow walk to work on with the younger generation. I am very grateful that I am an American, but I am also grateful that I can stand here and salute our younger generation. Thank you for giving me this opportunity and thank you for this flag. I just heard Mrs. Vincent Arl-Impelle Terry accepting the embroidered flag, and now Mr. Whelan is coming back for the final part of the ceremony. Thank you, Mrs. Impelle Terry. I am very much afraid that the mayor will have to watch his oratorical lulls now that we have heard you, because your speech was very touching and it was very much to the point, and I am sure that all these young children that are here will remember your very words. The recessional will be played by the police band, but I would request that everybody remain in their place until the mayor, Mrs. Impelle Terry, Mr. Golden, and the other distinguished guests leave the platform. In another jammed council chamber here in City Hall, in the ceremony that was meant to be held outside City Hall, we have honored the sixth birthday of the United Nations, the sixth birthday which finds New York City, the wonder city of the world, acknowledged now as the capital of the world because it is the seat of the United Nations and its deliberations to make us all friends since God has made us neighbors, following out the essay that the youngster turned in. It is very important that we do our part in the program for world peace, even though the complications of the present scene are possibly nothing more than the developments that are leading toward that great and wonderful solution powers. The whole thing will turn over because of the aspirations and hopes of all of us who are made known to each other now through the great system of communications, pictorial, graphic, and in the techniques of electricity, radio, telephone and otherwise. DoUrre yoga Doom현reat temer ToVE is acü word quindi has an indicator of the stimulation against CLI only has the highestое Możeegot is cheaper than the last day,