Well, we're allowing you to get some of the atmosphere of National Maritime Day here at the tip end of Manhattan Island in front of the Customs House. And certainly no city in the world is more entitled to celebrate Maritime Day than New York City, the greatest port in the world, with its over 500 miles of bulkhead line that is necessary and not even adequate at times to carry out the program of commerce and industry that's associated with this great and wonder city, New York. After all, it is the businessman, the commerce and the industry that creates a great city. Anything else is wishful thinking until commerce and industry takes over and creates the activity, the employment, the labor and all the other necessary factors that build up a city such as New York. And as we sit here in front of the Customs House as the cadets from the New York State Maritime Academy at Fort Schuyler are moving into position here in front of the Customs House. And we look at these magnificent buildings here that are founded entirely upon the commerce and industry, the foresight and the development of the businessman and business and industry. Why, we get some idea of what has been achieved since the day that was just a few little Dutch houses down here with the Stadthaus and all the other factors of the early Dutch settlement. We often wonder if the ancient Dutchman came back to this, their original diggings here below Wall Street because that was the city in the old days. And the old city of New York is really reckoned from Canal Street to the Battery. The rest of it is all hill and dale, farmland, squatters and what have you. And it's only in 1811 that the map of the city of New York was made out, laid out rather, whereby we got some idea of a series of streets that was later to become the great city of New York. We do realize the concept of streets of 1811 do not check very well with 1951. But that's only another of the problems that the government of the city of New York has to meet. We're moving into position now in front of the Customs House. The mayor has taken his place with the Honorable Harry M. Durning and Frank Taylor. And we'll very soon have a very interesting list of speeches and other facts that will bring out the importance of New York City as one of the great ports of the world, in fact, the greatest. There's some dispute, of course, right now going on as to what the city is doing about this great port. While the city has a budget of over 23 millions alone for one department, that's the Department of Marine and Aviation headed by Commissioner Cavanaugh, who is standing here smiling right on the stand here beside the mayor and the committee celebrating Maritime Day here. And these cadets present a very beautiful appearance indeed. I say beautiful from the standpoint of effect, not the men. We say that because last year, remember, it was not quite so beautiful. Remember that awful rainstorm and these pick-and-span uniforms? The men were drenched. Everything was shining and fine and up to the last moment in cleanliness and fine, beautiful appearance for an occasion this time. But the weather just ruined everything. Now today, the weatherman's proved that he's become a little better maritime citizen anyhow because we have a lot of sunshine down here at the tip end of Manhattan Island. We can hear the ferry boats of the St. George Staten Island ferry between New York and St. George. That gives us a little atmosphere as well. It's quite amazing how quickly the crowd gathers when an occasion of this kind sets forth. As the Honorable Grover Ray Whelan said one time, in fact, it was some years ago, when they were discussing what about the people, the crowds, he says, play a band around noontime in the lower part of New York and your crowd accumulates in no time at all, which is a fact. The lunch population alone of this part of the city, as we look at these skyscrapers mounting high into the heavens, we realize that as many of those people can get out do so when they hear the Marshall strains of a band. Now there's the color guard of the King's Point Maritime Academy. I had my geographical position a little mixed in the takeoff. The scene here is really very, very, very interesting indeed. And one of the most interesting factors is Abram de Peister, one of the former Dutch governors in New York, sitting there very calmly on the bowling green in a bronze statue that's been erected to him. And he looks over very serenely and as calm as any good Dutch governor would, no matter what the situation may be. And I don't doubt, but what he's very proud in watching these splendid young men who compromise the rank and file of the Maritime Academy, as they're addressing the square here. It takes a lot of drilling and they're really going through a regular review drill for the benefit of the mayor and the distinguished guests assembled on the stand here to observe Maritime Day. They're a little delayed in getting over the fog, I believe. They have one part of their trip is by ferry and it held them up quite a good deal. And they're doing their best now to make up for that by double-quick marching into space and addressing the square. No matter where you look now, you see the white hats and above them the beautiful green trees of spring and the Grand Canyon of Broadway, New York. That architectural accident that does so much to make the arrival of a distinguished guest in New York City to be greeted by the mayor, well, it creates the spectacular feature of that welcome. And I have heard myself, people express themselves in City Hall that they never saw anything like it after they arrive at City Hall, after the shower of ticker tape, confetti, and other things that are not supposed to be thrown out the window in greeting a guest. That happens by accident once in a while. I remember during the Lindbergh reception, someone dropped a telephone book out of the equitable building and it just grazed the shoulder of a policeman. He looked at it, realized he hadn't been hurt, and he looked up, he says, tear up the next one. And we're always glad when the emergency that's created, well, that the policeman's able to escape it because we're familiar with the splendid arrangements they make in handling these crowds. And if every bit of crime vanished from the city of New York, the emergency of life and death would not be deleted from the service of the policeman or the fireman because a city like New York City presents emergency at all times, very often through the carelessness of some of us. And now we're dressing the square and it looks everything is about ready for the anthem, and we'll hear that in just a few moments. Miss Shelby is the singer, but she will be introduced by the chairman. The greeting will be by the Honorable Harry M. Durning, and then Frank Taylor will take over and act as chairman and present the regular order of programs. I say Frank Taylor affectionately because he was long a member of the city government and he's moved into the maritime scene since he was last controller of the city of New York. Just that expectant moment now before the anthem is played and everything is dressed, and a very beautiful sight it is. For an old building, that old produce exchange is a very beautifully designed building, and the red brick of the produce exchange with its square clock tower, if anything, creates a background for the magnificent marble of the custom house. The site where we built a residence for George Washington, but the capital didn't stay in New York long enough, and moved to Philadelphia. The presidential residence was never used, and on the same site where that stood in the colonial days, now stands our custom house here at Bowling Green. You no doubt can pick up some of the atmosphere of commands as the square is being dressed, and we're just waiting now for the words of the chairman who will call for the anthem. The band of the Maritime Academy at Kings Point is the musical feature of the program here today. Now Mr. Taylor. President is the convain parishioners of the U.S. Armyian War. A man sit in themodern identity Он培closed anore and aggression. Some subjects appear to be dressed and shoes of dressed, He has driven on his heart, he can be treated. Regimental and battalion staff, He can be treated, as a righteous part in his coat and put on his 관�ily, First of all rights. Now the salute. Ladies and gentlemen, your honored guests, your honor, Mr. Mayor, we'll start the ceremony by having the Star Spangled Banner sung by William J. Farrell, United States Coast Guard we deserve, Mr. Farrell. Start! Stand, hut! Stand, hut! Grat, you must! Stand, hut! Stand, hut! Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars To the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming When the rough haze red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there For say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And of the home of the brave Rest! Order! Halt! Thanks very much, Mr. Farrell We will now have the invocation By Dr. Raymond S. Hall, Director, Seaman Church Institute Dr. Hall Almighty and most merciful God In whose presence we may seek and find the answers to the issues of our day We ask thy blessing upon our merchant marine industry In all its phases And grant that the port of New York May do its share As a merchant marine bears a greater part in our national defense Be with our armed forces In their time of need And grant that our country May bear its burden of leading the whole world to freedom We ask it through thy son Jesus Christ Our Lord Amen Now the Honorable Harry M. Durning Collector of Customs will make the address of welcome Mr. Durning Thank you very much, Mr. Hall We now have the privilege and the honor Of presenting to you The Honorable Harry M. Durning Collector of Customs of the Port of New York Mr. Durning Collector of the Port of New York Mr. Taylor, Dr. Hall, Mayor M. Pateri, Commissioner Cavanaugh, honored guests As Collector of Customs at the Port of New York It is again my privilege to welcome you here today, Maritime Day First designated by the Joint Resolution of Congress in May 1933 And now a tradition whereby each year, May 22nd, is proclaimed by our president as a day to be set aside To honor the American Merchant Marines, its officers, and seamen The importance of the American Merchant Marines to our nation does not need to be stressed It is known to each of us, without commerce, our country could no longer prosper In times of war, the Merchant Marines plays an important role of the lifeline of fighting them Indeed, the president in his proclamation has particularly cited the wake of the American Merchant Marines During the past year in supporting the military forces and our nation engaged in the Korean hostilities The work that has been done in promoting international trade and travel While serving the defense and security requirements of the nation He has also cited present war conditions requiring a constant state of readiness On the part of the American Merchant Marines In order that he may be assisted in leading the threats of aggression to our democracy So while we pay homage to that which is past It is to the young men, now finishing your training, that we look for the future For this reason, it is fitting and proper that we should today set aside this time to greet you And to welcome you here This we do most heartily And as you go along, know also our best wishes and hope To each individually and to you collectively As the core of the future American Merchant Marines Now it is my pleasure to introduce to you Mr. Frank Taylor President of the American Merchant Marine Institute Who is today to be your master of ceremonies Thank you Thank you very much, Mr. Turning Ladies and gentlemen, ever since 16 1933 The nation has been observing National Maritime Day To honor our Merchant Marine and to commemorate the start of the voyage Of the Savannah, the first team ships across the Atlantic The occasion of Maritime Day furnishes an excellent opportunity to give consideration To the part played by our Merchant Fleet both in peace and in war A year ago, when we had this same ceremony at this site The participants in the program placed emphasis on the peacetime problems Of the Merchant Marine and its outlook for the future Then Korea was only the name of a distant country That had little meaning for the American public As we assemble here today We can point to the events in Korea as another instance Of the vital role played by our Merchant Fleet As an adjunct to our armed services As soon as it was decided to defend Korea The American Merchant Marine went into action Private American steamship companies made available to the Navy Ships for the Korean lift Which has turned out to be a tremendous undertaker When additional ships were needed We were fortunate that we hadn't reserved 130 vessels of the excellent Victory type These were quickly reactivated and put into service The Korean War is the sixth major conflict The American Merchant Marine has participated in For 132 years since the Savannah's voyage The same transportation records That were made in World War II Are in a large measure being repeated In this present emergency But the Korean conflict Should also cause us to stop and think And they are the soundest investment we can make In liberty and freedom Thank you Thank you very much Commissioner Kavanaugh When the Federal Maritime Board was created last year by President Truman The formation of this three-man board to direct the maritime activities of our nation Was completed with the appointment of an Admiralty Lawyer from Maryland An outstanding leader in his specialized branch of the law He has brought to the government He has brought to the government A wealth of experience and sound judgment Concerning the maritime industry And therefore my privilege to present to you The Honorable Robert W. Williams Member of the Federal Maritime Board of Washington D.C. Mr. Williams Mr. Chairman Mr. Mayor Distinguished guests Men of Kings Point And friends of the American Merchant Marine The watchword for Maritime Day in 1951 Must be preparedness Twice before in our generation This nation has prepared against the aggressor And too quickly We have turned our swords into plowshares Today it is our aim To make every hour count toward a preparedness That shall be sufficient And then to maintain the strength that is needed For the responsibility of world leadership That has been laid upon us We may note that the number of ships this nation In number of ships this nation is better off Than in bygone years Today we are not dependent on foreign flagged ships For our national needs But beside an active merchant fleet Of 1,300 privately owned ships We have some 1,800 in our reserve fleet Including 1,400 liberties If our national policy demands That we send food or fuel or arms Across the seas Or bring home strategic raw material American ships are available The federal government Participates enthusiastically With this great state and city And with the representatives Of the American shipping industry And of American labor In this Maritime Day ceremony Its importance is emphasized By the fine turnout of cadets from King's Point We take pride in our ships To make these ships a vital factor In our preparedness And our national security We must have the close understanding And participation Of three elements of our economy I mean labor And management And government As to labor We hold dear in this country A standard of living Which we know Is the highest in the world We are agreed That this standard Shall prevail On American flag vessels And that the safety The food The quarters And the pay On American ships Shall not be exceeded By ships Of foreign flag What is reasonable ashore Should be reasonable afloat If some contribution by government Is necessary to maintain this standard In an industry Which is subject to world competition And different standards abroad We again agree That such a contribution Is in the public interest As to management This country is fortunate To have such a fund Of ship owning And ship operating experience As exists today And which is so ably represented Here in New York For it is the policy of our government To rely upon the knowledge And experience Of the American shipping industry And not to compete against it This has been the policy of our government Both in peacetime And in emergencies At the outbreak of the Korean campaign The armed services at once Turned to private owners For ships To meet the sudden military emergency And private owners responded However The need was more Than private fleets could handle Accordingly Accordingly 149 victory ships Were broken out From the government reserve fleet The government Through the maritime administration Turned these victory ships Over to private operators Under bare boat charter These operators Then manned and supplied These ships And turned them over For time charter To the military sea transportation service It was one of these victory ships The Meredith Victory Which added a dramatic page To American maritime history You have heard the story But it should be repeated She was a 7,600 ton vessel Built to carry dry cargo And 12 passengers Yet in the evacuation Of troops And civilians From Hongnam In northern Korea Last December She carried 14,000 souls To Puzan Her voyage Lasted Three terrible days This record indeed Shows that our merchant marine officers And men Did the impossible The Queen Mary herself Rated at over 81,000 tons Ordinarily carries less than 2,500 passengers And during the war Her largest load was 15,000 The Meredith Victory Rated at 7,600 tons Carried 14,000 stranded Koreans Safely to their southern base In the selling and chartering Of government war-built ships There has been the same policy Of support to private industry And not competition against it Ships have been sold to qualified operators At a reasonable price Based not on the excessive cost of World War II But on a percentage of pre-war domestic costs As of last year As of last year The U.S. Sales by the government Were discontinued The use of the remaining ships The ship has been sold to the quality of support To private industry And not competition against it Ships have been sold to qualified operators At a reasonable price Based not on the excessive cost of World War II But on a percentage of pre-war domestic costs As of last January Sales by the government were discontinued The use of the remaining ships by the government Is carefully limited To avoid competition With those already sold And in private hands The charter of vessels From the reserve fleet Is now authorized only Where public need requires more tonnage In some particular route And then only after a public hearing At which it must be clearly shown That there is more business Than private industry can handle And that no ships can be chartered To meet the need from private owners I repeat Our government has need Of a strong merchant marine We believe That such a merchant marine Will develop more soundly When operated by private industry Than by government Preparing this to do Preparing this today Means not only making for ourselves The sinews of war But also supplying these sinews To the other countries of the world Our bridge to them Is the American merchant marine In recent months A new agency Known as the National Shipping Authority Has been established Under the maritime administration And already A hundred and ten liberty ships Have been activated By this agency Primarily to carry The full cargoes of grain And supplies So badly needed abroad More ships Will be put at the service Of our armed force As the mounting need increases The National Shipping Authority Will necessarily expand With the emergency But by the same token It will contract When the emergency passes This authority too This authority too Is following the same pattern Of calling on industry To act as the government's General agent In operating these ships These liberty ships As they come from the reserve fleet Will be uniformly painted At ocean gray With a green boot top But each will carry The distinctive mark Of the operating agent On her smokestack And each will fly The agent's flag Of course There will be new And faster ships Coming off the ways In the months to come Passenger ships Troopers And tankers Of great size One of the most important steps In our total national defense preparation Made in the United States One of the most important steps In our total national defense preparation Made in the last six months Is the ordering By the maritime administrator Of the first 25 badly needed 20-knock fast cargo ships Of the mariner class The United States The Constitution And the independence Will be great names In the new American merchant marine But let us not forget The 1400 liberty ships Still in reserve They may not be fast Nor beautiful But they can be had in a hurry And they still May have a dramatic role To play In our national history If an emergency Is to be met That role may Well Be comparable To the role Of the battered taxi cabs Of Paris That brought victory To the allied armies In the first battle Of the Marne In 1914 Only with the united effort Of our labor organizations Our management organizations And our government resources Can our merchant marine Put to best use The time That is still allotted Only with such combined effort Can our merchant marine Serve our armed forces In the way that we would have them served And only with such combined effort Can we look forward to the future With any degree of confidence May the strength of this united effort May the strength of this united effort Be sufficient Be sufficient To turn To turn The aggressor From his aggression And bring him at length To walk with us In the paths Of peace Thank you very much Commissioner Williams Now for another musical interlude Before we hear from our principal speaker We have with us Another operatic soprano Who has made her mark In the musical world On the stage On radio And television Now pleased to present to you Miss Mildred Eller Singing an old favorite Sweethearts Miss Eller Our love is so sweet In the spring Our love is so sweet In the spring Our love is so sweet In the spring Our love is so sweet In the spring Our love is so sweet In the spring Our love is so sweet In the spring When blossoms are fragrant In May The years that are coming Can bring time To make me forget The illy stay I love you in life's great December The summer's all The happy day The happy day Will remember The thrill in you That day in May Sweet heart, sweet heart, sweet heart Will you love me ever Will you remember the day When we were happy in May By the earth's room Sweet heart, sweet heart, sweet heart Though all past may never be Through life's last great ember Will you remember In time, let them know When we were happy in May Thank you Thank you Thank you