The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning. We've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. It's the Police Safety Program sent to you with the cooperation of His Honourable Mayor and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety by members of the Safety Bureau. So be a little bit careful. You cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful. You cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful, mate. Be safer and safer. You're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful. And take it easy. Don't be in a rush. Good morning, boys and girls. Good morning. And how is everybody this morning? I hope everybody's in capital for this as we met at the last Saturday. Well, we're glad to have you with us this morning. Because you know what we're going to do? We're going to go on a very long, make-believe walk up and down over our city sidewalks this morning. Because we know what we're going to look for. We're going to look for old man accident. Mm-hmm. What did you say about old man accident, Mr. Narrator? I just came in. Why, hello, Jimmy Alert. You know, we're glad to see you this morning. Because you're going to have to help us. Well, you can count on me. But what's wrong? Well, this morning when I went to my mailbox, I found a letter from old man accident. Can you imagine? He's sending me letters now. I think he's scared of it. He's sending his letters. And I've got the letter here with me. But before I read the letter, I think I'm going to sing a song. I think I'll sing a song this morning about when you ride a bicycle. Oh, that would be nice. Mm-hmm. When you ride a bicycle, you watch out for the motor cars. When you ride a bicycle, never take your hands off the handlebar. Pedal slowly to and fro. You get where you want to go. But don't do things you think you know. Cause you saw them at the show. Be as cool as an bicycle. When you ride a bicycle. Very, very good. Did you like that song, Jim? I liked it a lot. Well, you know, the reason I sang that song was because in this letter that old man accident sent me, it's all about bicycles. Oh, yes? Yeah, listen, I'll read it to you. It says here, now, let me see. Uh, Mr. Narrator, since the weather is so nice and all the boys and girls will be out on their roller skates and their bicycles, I won't come up to your broadcast because I'm going to be too busy looking for children who are careless and don't obey the safety rules. Hey, he's around looking for children who don't obey the safety rules. I bet there'll be plenty of accidents. And, you know, he just loves to find boys and girls who aren't careful. Well, uh, what are you going to do to stop him? Well, Jimmy, I think we ought to try to fool old man accident. Uh, will you help me look for him? Yes, I'd like to, but how will we find him? The city is so big. Oh, that's easy. All we have to do is think of our safety thoughts. And when we think of our safety thoughts, we will look for the boys and girls. And wherever there are boys and girls who are not obeying safety rules, you know, old man accident is there with his two companions, recklessness and carelessness. And he'll be just watching and waiting for trouble. So let you and I go out. And, uh, say, Mr. Piano, you better come along with us. We're going to need your help also. So you better just play a little music now while we get our safety thoughts thinking. Here we go. Where are we going? The park is over there to my left. Oh, we don't want to go to the park today, Jimmy. You know, parks and playgrounds are supervised playgrounds, you know. An old man accident knows that boys and girls who bicycle around and roller skates on supervised playgrounds, they're not likely to get hurt. We'll just keep walking and we'll look for children on bikes and roller skates. Hey, what was that? Did you hear somebody crying, Jim? Yes, yes, I did. Over there on the alley. Let's see what's wrong. Yeah, let's go over here in the alley. Why, look, there's a little boy. Nine years, about nine years old, don't you think so, Jim? Yeah, about nine, or nine or ten. Say, little fella, say, little fella, what's the matter with you? I'm so scared. I'm so frightened. You're frightened? Well, uh, well, suppose you tell us, son. What happened to you? I wanted to go uptown. Um, so when I saw a big truck pass by, uh, I thought I was, I wanted to hitch on it. But, but it stopped all of a sudden, and, and, and the driver, he came out, he was a big man, and he shouted at me. And, and I didn't hitch, but he frightened me, he said, oh, I'm so scared. I want, uh, I want to go home, but, uh. Maybe it's better that you're scared. Because if you had hitched on that truck, perhaps, you know, hitching is a very dangerous thing. After all, when you hitch, it's like stealing something. And when you steal a ride, you know, that every time you steal something, you're likely to get caught. Yeah. So when you steal a ride, there's likely to be an accident. I, I, I know it was wrong, but, but I see the other boys do it. I thought I could do it, too. No, no, no, no, it's very wrong. If somebody else does something wrong, if somebody else is careless, it doesn't mean you should be careless. Well, I don't see you, you're a little frightened. Jimmy, can you talk to this boy and see what you can do for him? Well, uh, I, I, I would like to say something to him, but he, he's so frightened now. Well, uh, would you tell him, then, perhaps, if you heard you tell him not to hitch rides, it would do him a whole lot of good, huh, Jim? Tell him about the terrible things that could happen to him. Do you know, do you know, uh, do you know, son, what happens to little boys who steal rides? Very, very often, they get a free ride to the hospital. Jimmy, why don't you find out where the little boy lives and take him home? And I'll wait here for you, huh? Oh, I, I think that would be a good idea. Now, uh, come over here, son, will you? Do you know where you live? Yes, yes, I, I live just down on the next block. Well, I, I, I, I'll take him home, surely, I'll do that, yeah. And remember, little boy, any boy that hitches a ride, one accident could put you in a hospital bed for the rest of your life. Yes, I, I'll remember that now. Thank you again. Well, I'm glad you were here to help me, Jim. Now, you go ahead along with him while you're gone, Jimmy. I'll sing a song here with Mr. Piano. Surely, I, I'll do that. These songs were written for Johnny Be Careful Whose mother and father are busy all day Whose mother and father and sister and brother Say, Johnny, be careful while you are at play Each little song is a song with a lesson And this is the kind of a lesson we mean Stop, look, and listen while traffic lights glisten And only cross streets when the red turns to green Don't talk to strangers And don't play with matches These new little songs Know the right from the wrong So sing while you're learning And learn while you're singing And you will grow up to be Healthy and strong I just came in on the end of that, Mr. Piano. Yeah, did you like the song, Jim? Oh, it's very, very lovely. Do you know? What did his mother say? That little boy's mother, she started to cry when she saw how frightened her boy was. Mm-hmm. But I told her it wasn't serious, that he was only frightened, and he would be all right in a few hours. Good for you, Jim. Well, we know that old man accident must be around here somewhere, so let's keep looking and see how lucky we are. And I hope there doesn't happen any serious accidents around here, you know, because it's only pure luck that that little boy was frightened by that driver. Oh, oh, Mr. Narrator. Yes? Now look over there, that boy on a roller skate. Mm-hmm. He's holding on to the back of a bicycle, and they're going right down the middle of the busy street. And look, they just passed a red light and almost get hit by a car. The boy riding the bicycle and the other fellow hitching on behind. Well, we must stop them. Come on, Jimmy, let's come in. Just a minute. I think I know the boy on the bicycle. I'll call him. Billy! Billy! Billy Walters, come over here. Hi! Well, what do you want, Jim? Say, yes, Billy Walters, come over here, little fella. Say, my name is Mr. Narrator. Yes, hello, hello, hello, Mr. Narrator. And this is Jimmy Alert. Of course, you know him. He called after you. Yes, well... Now, I want to ask you, you know, that's a very dangerous thing for you to have somebody hitching on the back of your bicycle. Oh, that's nothing. We've done it plenty of times. Nothing ever happens to us. Well, it could have this time. Now, I just saw him in an accident around the corner, and he looked mad. I bet he had a big accident all planned for you. And I'm glad that we came along in time. Now, you listen, Billy. I want to tell you something. You know, I blame you more than I do that other boy in the roller skates, because you're older, and it's your bicycle. And, of course, that's your responsibility. Say, who was this old... I didn't see any old man accident. Well, you'll never see him, Billy. You'll never see old man accident. No, you won't. But you'll feel him because carelessness and everybody else is around. Say, listen, I want to tell you something, Billy. Just because you don't see old man accident around doesn't mean that you don't have to be careful. You know, I'm going to tell you. Everybody must be careful no matter what they're doing, whether they're walking or riding a bicycle. And, uh, you... you better tell you better study up on your safety rules for bicycle riding. Now, you take care. Come over here. I want to talk to you about these safety rules. When you're riding a bicycle, hitching is a very dangerous thing, especially if you hitch. And if you're going to have somebody else hitching on the back of your bicycle, that's also very dangerous. Do you understand me? Yeah, I think I... Yes, I know that now. Well, another thing. When you ride your bicycle, you have a slow-moving vehicle and you must keep to the right side of the road. You understand that? Yes. That's a traffic regulation. And, of course, you stop at red light. And you stop at full stop signs. Do you remember that? Yes, I will. And if you must ride your bicycle at nighttime, it's a safety suggestion that you wear an outer garment of lighter color. Oh, I know why that. Why? I know why... If, uh, Billy... Yeah, you... Are you paying attention? Yeah, I'm listening, Jimmy. As Mr. Nairaider said, if you must ride your bicycle at night, you must wear an outer garment of lighter color. You know why? Well, I don't... Because the man driving a car can see you so much easier. Mm-hmm. Oh, that's... And another thing. If you must ride your bicycle at night, be sure that you have a reflector on the rear. Now, they are just a general run of the safety rules for riding your bicycle. You must remember that. You hear me, Billy? Yeah, yes, but there's so much to remember. You told me so many things. Well, it may seem a lot to remember at first, but after you practice being careful, you'll find that it's all very easy. Well, well... Don't you think so, Jimmy? Yes. Honest to this, Billy, you know that I'm always careful, and I think it's very easy. Yes, Jimmy. And you have so much fun. Yes, Jimmy is right, Billy. You try for a while, and you practice the safety rules, and I'm sure that after you practice, you'll find it's very easy to obey the safety rules. I'll, uh, I'll certainly try. I will. I promise. Well, you go ahead now, and you go on about your business, and don't have me, don't let us see you hitching, hitching on cars, or have another boy hitching on with their roller skates. See, Jim, I think it's time for you and I to go back to the studio. Well, I think that would be nice, yes. So that you and I think of the green traffic light. Hmm? Think. Think. Everybody think. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Well, here we are, back at the studio again, and we had a wonderful time today, we were looking for old man accident. But before we sign off, I think we should really cross the speaky musical way. So let's try it this morning. Remember, there are four corners. There's one here, there's one there, there's one here, and there's one there. Isn't that cute, Jimmy? That's very nice. That's very nice. And of course, Jimmy, I want you to remember this. Yeah. Before you step off the curb, Yes. You should look at the green traffic light. Be sure it's green. Mm-hmm. And then before you start to walk across, Yes. You look first to the left. First to the left. And then you look to the right. Then I look to the right. And you always keep alert when you walk across the street. Now it is time for our thinking for safety. Are we ready? Mm-hmm. First corner. Then look. Traffic light. Then look left. Then look right. Quiet. Everybody concentrate. And here is something else I want you to remember. To walk safely, remember what's said. And don't cross streets while lights are still red. But cross at the corners, don't run in the street. Because that's where trouble and accidents meet. This program will be presented again next Saturday morning at the same time. This script was prepared by Lee Francis. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Center for Over which is being trouble in the history where you're at the again. And I'll see you here next time. You see. Hazard Port Например on a primary line leaves on the left. Some w leaders are docking in the house in the street. At the same time, there's a sense to speak of people in the front of you. Dear friends, ve also have backside and good as