The officials and the employers, and it looks as though the final decision has come. The bosses are coming into the meeting room now. And we hope to bring you the union officials and the representatives from the employers. And now, here is Mr. Theodore W. Teal, Director of Keele, Director of Labor Relations. Mr. Keele. I am pleased to announce that the dispute between the operators of the oil barges and self-propelled tankers and local 333 United Marine Division International Longshoremen's Union, AFL, has been settled. And the threatened fuel crisis avoided. The agreement came when a formula was evolved satisfactory to both sides regarding overtime work on the barges. Under the terms of the agreement, time in one half will be paid when the oil barges will be paid when the oil barges will be paid when the oil barges will be paid when the oil barges will be paid to the oil barges. I am pleased to announce that the dispute between the operators of the oil barges and self-propelled tankers under the terms of the agreement, time in one half will be paid whenever two employees are required for work on the barges. In addition, the employers have agreed to place an additional oiler on some of the self-propelled vessels. All other terms of the agreement are the same as those accepted by the union on behalf of the employees on the tugboats last New Year's Day morning. The main provisions of that agreement were a ten cent increase, additional grub allowance, and group insurance. Mayor O'Twire was in constant touch with the negotiations during the entire evening and issued a separate statement in connection with the settlement. Particular thanks are due to Mr. William McCormick, one of New York City's leading businessmen, who spent countless hours with us in helping to settle this dispute. At all times, both sides were fully aware of their public responsibility and worked very diligently to reach this agreement. I'd like to ask, first of all, Mr. Ryan, who is President of the International World Shormans Union, to say a few words both to the radio and to the gentlemen of the press. Jack, would you give the boys the mayor's statement? And now, here's Mr. Ryan. And naturally, as President of the International World Shormans Association, I'm very happy that the negotiations were completed before midnight, so that there need be no fear that the citizens of our city would be further handicapped by this oil crisis. We take this opportunity to thank Mayor O'Dwyer and his representative, William J. McCormick, as well as Mr. Keel and Mr. O'Grady, and also the Federal Conciliator, Mr. Thomas Darge. Thank you very much, Mr. Ryan. Now, let me ask Mr. Captain Bradley, who is President of Local 333. Mr. Ziegler, come on, Captain. It's kind of late in the evening, but you can still walk. Mr. Chairman, I'm glad that this agreement is about to be presented to our membership, and I'm certainly glad that we had came to an agreement before the deadline. Thank you. Now, Mr. Mitchell, who was Chairman of the Employers' Negotiating Committee, do you have a statement? Uh, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this settlement would ensure a continuance of the friendly relations between the union men and their management that have existed for many years. Mr. Gabriel Gabrielson, who is the delegate on the union negotiating committee. Well, I ain't got very much to say. The only thing that I can say, we had a pretty tough fight with our bosses, but I'm glad that it's straightened out the way it is, and I hope they'll be satisfied with the men. And Mr. Roman Beck, the attorney for the employers. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the employers, I'm very happy indeed that the settlement has been arrived at, even though I must confess that the tremendous added financial burdens that it involves will probably be felt by them for a long time to come. I think that the people of this city, and I want to say this with great emphasis for the gentlemen of the press, should know this because it hasn't been revealed in the press so far, that a gentleman by the name of William J. McCormick has been working with us at the request of the mayor ever since before New Year's Day. He was at City Hall all New Year's Day, New Year's, the day before New Year's, through the early hours of the morning, and he has given almost all of his time ever since, and has made a contribution to the settlement of this dispute, which is something that the people of this city have great thanks to him. And I think that when I say that, I am expressing the thoughts of both the employers and the union. Is that right, gentlemen? That's right. Anybody got anything else to say? If not, we will adjourn this happy meeting and go home. Drinks will be off the record. I've got a box in the other room. Thank you very much, Mr. Keough. Here's a statement by Mayor William O'Dwyer on the barge and tanker settlement. I appreciate very much the fact that the employers and labor work so patiently with this very troublesome problem and settle their dispute. A succession of fuel oil service at this time of the year to New York City would have inflicted a hardship which would have resulted in an illness and possible loss of life. The fact that both sides, realizing this, continued their negotiations to a successful conclusion is something that should not go unnoticed. And as Mayor of the city, I congratulate Mr. P. W. Keough, Director of the Division of Labor Relations, Mr. Joseph O'Grady, Deputy Director, and Mr. William J. McCormick for a job well done. Heading the agreement here at the meeting, as it is breaking up now, you can hear the men all shaking hands, their smiling faces. It's been a long, hard fight. But an agreement was reached, and everyone is extremely happy. Mr. Keough is shaking hands now. Mr. Keough, of course, led the agreement. Peter W. Keough, Director of Labor Relations for the City of New York, for Mayor O'Dwyer. This meeting came to you from the 24th floor of the Municipal Building, overlooking the City of New York. They're all smiling. Everyone is friendly, it would seem. And so we have brought you the final decision and agreement in the oil tanker BART's proposed strike. Your announcer has been Milton Grant, and our special event director has been Frank Rosa. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.