This is the United Nations. This is the United Nations. This is the United Nations at Flushing Meadow, New York. During this morning's broadcast, we shall attend together a special ceremony in this great hall of the United Nations Assembly at Flushing, a ceremony commemorating the fifth anniversary of the coming into force of the United Nations Charter. This day, the 24th of October, United Nations Day, is being celebrated by special ceremonies in practically all of the 60 countries' members of the United Nations. And here at Flushing Meadow, there is a very particular ceremony which will take place in a short time. During this ceremony, which will be opened by the President of this fifth session of the General Assembly, Mr. Nasrullah Entuzam of Iran, the President of the Assembly, upon opening this special plenary meeting, will make an address to the Assembly, and he will be followed by the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Trigver Lee. Mr. Lee will in turn introduce the guest of the United Nations on this occasion, the President of the United States of America, Mr. Harry S. Truman. And so at this point, all is in readiness for this ceremony. As we look down into this great hall from our radio booth here at Flushing Meadow, we see that on the presidential dais, or on the tribune in the forward part of this great hall, there have been placed a number of extra chairs. Those chairs are for the Vice Presidents of the General Assembly, because in the usual position, there is the Presidential position, and the chair of Ambassador Entuzam is flanked by that of Mr. Trigver Lee and Mr. Trigver Lee's Executive Assistant. But then on the level of the Speaker's rostrum, there are the chairs of the Vice Presidents of the Assembly, and a special chair which has just been placed right near the Speaker's of the United States. The President of the United States, occupying the Vice Presidential Chairs will be, of course, the Representatives or Heads of Delegation of the United States, the United Kingdom, China, France, the Soviet Union, Venezuela, and Australia. The persons who will occupy these chairs for these respective countries will be, we understand, Mr. Dean Acheson, the Secretary of State of the United States, Mr. Kenneth Younger, Minister of State of the United Kingdom, Dr. Ting Fu Chiang, the head of the Chinese Nationalist Delegation, and permanent representative of France to the United Nations. Mr. Andrei Vyshinsky, the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, will occupy the Vice Presidential Chair for his country, for Venezuela Ambassador Cesar Gonzalez, and for Australia, the Foreign Minister of that country, Mr. Percy Spender. So this ceremony will consist, then, of the three speeches to the Assembly, the opening speech of President Nasrullah Enthazam of Iran, the speech of the Secretary General, Mr. Trigval Lee, and that of the honoured guest of the day, the President of the United States. The hall of the Assembly is crowded today, as it has not been crowded before. Already in preparation for the beginning of this session, practically all of the delegates, and there should be 600 of them present this morning, are at their delegation's benches. The official visitors' galleries are crowded. There isn't, of course, a seat left in the public gallery, and the press awaiting the arrival of the President of the United States, and his official party will file into the press gallery in just a few moments, when the meeting is about to begin. Outside this great building at Flushing Meadow, the flags of the 60 member states of the United Nations are spanking in a fresh breeze this morning, and on the roof of this great hall of the Assembly is the blue and white banner of the United Nations itself. There is a security service, which is usual on occasions when guests of the United Nations of high position come to the great hall of the Assembly, or to other buildings of the United Nations. This was true just a year ago when the President of the United States dedicated the new building of the United Nations in Manhattan. It was true when the Shah of Iran came during the last session of the Assembly to be received by the General Assembly and to address it. It was true during the session of the Assembly held in Paris, when the Prime Minister of India, Mr. Nehru, was a guest of the Assembly. And so there is excitement throughout this building, and there is a spirit of waiting, because in just a few minutes the official ceremonies will get underway. And now we should like to explain these same matters, with your indulgence, to our French-language listeners. And so we ask you to remain with us for just a few moments as we do this. And as President Enthussum of the Assembly lifts his gavel, we shall take you at that point to the floor of this great hall of the United Nations General Assembly at Flushing Meadow, New York. Ici, la radio des Nations Unies qui vous parle de la grande salle de l'Assemblée Générale des Nations Unies à Flushing Meadow, dans la ville de New York. Aujourd'hui, 24 octobre 1950, Journée des Nations Unies, cinquième anniversaire de l'entrée en vigueur de la Charte des Nations Unies. Par conséquent, une cérémonie spéciale au cours d'une séance plénière de l'Assemblée générale aura lieu dans quelques minutes. Cette cérémonie sera marquée par trois discours. L'allocution d'ouverture qui sera prononcée par le président de la cinquième session de l'Assemblée générale des Nations Unies, Monsieur l'Ambassadeur Nasrullah Ntezam de l'Eran. Ensuite, le secrétaire général des Nations Unies, Monsieur Tricvelli, prononcera un discours, un discours de présentation, présentation de l'invité d'honneur de l'Assemblée Générale, le président des États-Unis d'Amérique, Monsieur Henry Truman. Nous sommes ici dans notre cabine radiophonique dans la salle de séance, dans cette grande salle de l'Assemblée générale qui est en vérité vaste et impressionnante. Nous attendons l'arrivée de Monsieur Truman accompagné de Monsieur Lee et Monsieur Ntezam. Tous les délégués, et il doit y en avoir 600 ce matin, sont à leur place et attendent l'ouverture de cette séance spéciale. Nous voyons sur la tribune, devant cette grande salle, une scène un peu différente de celle que nous voyons d'habitude. Il y a bien entendu la tribune présidentielle avec le fauteuil présidentiel. De chaque côté, il y en a un autre, l'un pour le secrétaire général Monsieur Lee et l'autre pour son aide. Et puis, un peu plus bas sur un autre niveau, le niveau des microphones et du pupitre des orateurs, nous voyons une nouvelle série de fauteuils qui ne s'y trouvent pas d'habitude. Ce sont les fauteuils des vice-présidents de l'Assemblée générale. Et les vice-présidents sont les chefs des délégations des pays suivants. Etats-Unis, France, Chine, Royaume-Uni, Union soviétique, Australie et Venezuela. Et ces fauteuils seront occupés ce matin pour leurs pays respectifs par Monsieur Dean Hatchison, secrétaire d'Etat des Etats-Unis d'Amérique. Monsieur Kenneth Younger, ministre d'Etat du Royaume-Uni. Monsieur Ting Fu-Tiang, chef de la délégation nationaliste de la Chine, et représentant permanent de son pays auprès des Nations Unies. Monsieur Jean Chauvel, chef de la délégation française, et représentant permanent de la France auprès des Nations Unies. Pour l'Union soviétique, nous verrons le ministre des Affaires étrangères de ce pays, Monsieur Andrei Wyshinski. L'Australie sera représentée également par son ministre des Affaires étrangères, Monsieur Percy Spender, et enfin le vice-président qui représente le Venezuela, Monsieur l'ambassadeur César González. Lorsque le président des Etats-Unis arrivera et montra sur l'estrade, il y aura une série de présentations au cours de laquelle Monsieur Truman recevra les salutations de ses vice-présidents de l'Assemblée Générale. Il aura déjà été reçu à la porte par le président de l'Assemblée et le secrétaire général des Nations Unies. Voilà donc la cérémonie. Et nous apprenons que le président des Etats-Unis d'Amérique vient d'arriver dans cette salle, dans la grand salle de l'Assemblée Générale des Nations Unies à Flushing Meadow. Par conséquent, nous nous apprêtons à commencer notre émission par vous mettre en communication avec les micros qui se trouvent dans la grand salle de l'Assemblée Générale. Merci, avec votre Stromisman, J'aurai, l' precisamente prétexte de l'Ophtierose des États-Unis. C'est tut Gulf 1995. Ceforce du jour s' Geikes européen au Fin,mi l'ётся monter au V計ux de l'Assemblée Générale du Nord au expressedou midjuste des Etats Has-Unis, et quatre urves selon lesquelles ontέλos au É liking lesquelles au sein, Le nom de l'Assemblée aujourd'hui pour cette spéciale plénérique session est le président de l'Unité, Mr. Harry Truman. Le spéciale de l'Assemblée aujourd'hui sera de trois speeches. Une épreuve par l'Assemblée, l'ambassadeur Nasrallah-Entazam, de l'Iran. Une seconde, l'aspect de l'Assemblée, le président de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée, de l'Assemblée. Le word a été communicatedé dans le hall que le président de l'Assemblée a arrivé. Consequently, tous les delegats ont pris leurs seats. Le press est maintenant venu dans le press-gallerie. Perhaps vous pouvez entendre dans le background et le sound coming from this great hall, as les delegats all ont leur eyes rivetté sur le entrance duquel le président de l'Assemblée qui va faire l'appareil dans le hall. Avant ce déjeuner, le président de l'Assemblée sera été reçu par l'Assemblée, par l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée, par l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée, et puis, en appareant sur le platform en l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée, il va présenter à l'Assemblée les septembre vice-presidents de l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée et puis, en appareil à l'Assemblée, il va prendre sa place à l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée, et la session de l'Assemblée de l'Assemblée sera donc open. Et maintenant, les vice-presidents de l'Assemblée sont venus à prendre leur place. We see Mr. Vyshinsky, Mr. Kenneth Younger, Mr. Dean Acheson, et Ambassador César González sitting on the far side of the hall. Near us, we see Monsieur Jean Chauvel of France, Dr. Ting Fu Tiang and Mr. Spender. Here is the gavel and here is the executive assistant to Mr. Trigver Lee, the secretary general of the United Nations. We take you now to the floor of the great hall of the General Assembly. We will now be in communication with the great hall of the General Assembly. of the General Assembly. As the President of the United States arrives, all of the people in this hall arise from their seat and here is the applause to greet Mr. Truman. Le président des États-Unis d'Amérique est arrivé dans la salle de l'Assemblée générale. Voici Monsieur Entezam, président de l'Assemblée. Here is Mr. Entezam. Monsieur le Président of the General Assembly, I welcome the president of the United States who has been so good as to come and commemorate with us the entry into force of the Charter. I am sure I express the feelings of the Assembly when I thank you, Mr. President, for this further proof of the interest taken in our work by the government and people of the United States. it is fitting that on this day we should survey the road that has been travelled during the last five years. The increasing importance of the part played by the United Nations in international life is recognised. the organisation is firmly established on the soil of the country whose hospitality it has gratefully accepted. Its installation in its permanent New York headquarters will be the visible symbol of its lasting character. These five years have, however, been difficult for the world and for the United Nations and the present situation is still serious. Nevertheless, the world is beginning to hope again. The United Nations has shown firmness in defending one of its fundamental principles. The principle referred to in the preamble to the charter which it speaks of ensuring that armed force shall not be used save in the common interest. The use of armed forces to further special aims in Korea and the refusal to cease using force have aroused among the United Nations that defensive reaction against war or the threat of war which is called collective security. For the first time, the world organization has in the common interest met force with force. the future of peace will largely depend on the outcome of this experience. Everyone, however, is aware that the use of force by the international organization though it may be necessary cannot of itself be sufficient. to establish the conditions necessary for a peaceful solution to all our problems. the material and moral power of the United Nations should enable it to deal with those problems in a broad spirit of understanding prudently yet firmly. Thus, in the Korean question, the General Assembly has taken decisions which cannot be interpreted as reflecting an attitude of passion or a spirit of vengeance or conquest. The desire of the United Nations which it has clearly expressed is to help in the establishment of a unified, independent, and democratic government for the whole of Korea and to render effective assistance to the unfortunate Korean population in healing its wounds and reconstructing its shattered economy. The United Nations program is cooperation and mutual understanding and assistance. My colleagues will allow me to tell the President of the United States that last year we recognized that this spirit of cooperation was inherent in point four of his inaugural address of the 20th of January. The increasing interest of the United Nations in the organization of technical assistance for underdeveloped countries is evidence of the resounding echo which the fundamental idea of point four found in our Assembly. I cannot expatiate here on the work being done by the United Nations in so many fields. I think, among others, of aid to children the defense of human rights, the struggle against the hideous crime of genocide, the Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of Genocide unanimously approved by the General Assembly in 1948 has just entered into force. But, as we well know, a shadow overhangs all our work. in 1945, we accepted the idea that it might perhaps be more correct to say the hope that the collaboration of the permanent members of the Security Council would provide a solid foundation for the structure of peace. Disputes between the great powers have unfortunately never ceased to shake the world. It seems to me that from this General Assembly, which because of its anxieties and its endeavors will perhaps be called the Assembly of Collective Security, a pressing appeal arises. It is the appeal of the peoples of the United Nations as expressed in the preamble of the Charter to practice tolerance, to live together in peace with one another as good neighbors, to unite our strength, to maintain international peace and security. Thousands of children, these simple words whose clarity no subtle commentary can disturb are today repeated by thousands of children in their schools. If those children are to be preserved from the scourge we have experienced, the nations and those who guide them must act in that spirit of tolerance, good neighborliness and unity. That was the speech of the President of the Fifth Session of the General Assembly, Ambassador Nasrallah Entazam. Listeners in the United States of America heard that speech in English interpretation. And here is the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Tricveli. the Secretary General of the United Nations, Mr. Tricveli. President and the Sons, President General Assembly, of the United Nations, the five years that have passed since the United Nations Charter came into force have been years of struggle for those who believe in the United Nations. Struggle to bring the realities of international life closer to the purposes and principles expressed in the Charter. We have had many disappointments. Often we have seemed to be close to failure. Always we have lived with the danger of total disaster. The danger of a third world war lurking close beside us. We have not yet removed that danger. But we have, I think, gained in understanding how to prevent such a war and how to build a permanently peaceful world. We have made progress in learning why the United Nations is, in fact, as well as theory, indispensable to peace. peace. One of the lessons that the bitter experience of the past five years is helping us to learn is this. We shall not be able to prevent a third world war if the member governments regard the United Nations as a mere convenience to be used or set aside at will. Another of the lessons we are learning is that the United Nations can be made to work effectively for peace just as it exists today without constitutional changes provided that the member governments make its success the real purpose of their foreign policies in fact as well in words. The third lesson we are learning is the lesson of patience. We are beginning to make progress I think toward winning respect for recommendations and compliance with the decisions of the United Nations but we have a long long way still to go. It takes time much time to establish the new patterns of conduct that the charter calls upon governments to follow. We must not forget that the United Nations charter sets forth the principles of a new world order. This new world order must on the one hand outlaw war as an instrument of change and on the other hand increase the opportunities for peaceful change and progress in all parts of the world. The United Nations stands for a world order in which the rights and aspirations of majorities and minorities of all kinds are mutually protected and respected. The United Nations stands for a world order in which peoples and nations will have a better chance than ever before to improve their position in the world and to win a larger measure of freedom from poverty and from fear. I believe there may now be before us a better opportunity than any time since 1945 to build a truly peaceful world. country and to be to make good use of this opportunity we must uphold the charter in all its aspects. We must be strong in collective action against armed aggression. and we must be equally strong in the determination to move forward step by step toward the peaceful reconciliation of the deep and dangerous conflicts that still divide the world. Today on this fifth anniversary I think it's right and proper for me as Secretary General to express a word of thanks to all those who have helped to make the United Nations a better and stronger organization for peace during the past five years. I am thinking of the member governments who have stood by the United Nations and given it their support. Of the members of the Secretariat who have worked loyally and faithfully for the aims of the Charter despite all setbacks and of the countless millions of men and women in all parts of the world who have made their voices heard individually and collectively through non-governmental organizations in behalf of the United Nations Road to Peace. On this fifth anniversary I think also of all those who have given their lives for peace in the service of the United Nations and of their widows their children and of their fathers and mothers. The first names were inscribed on that role of honor more than two years ago. Many countries are represented on it. During the past few months the list has become much longer. I'm quite sure that if it were possible for us to consult the wishes of these honored dead they wouldn't ask for revenge. They would ask us to carry on for the United Nations and to achieve the goal for which they gave their lives the creation of United Nations peace throughout the world. As Secretary General, I wish also to express on behalf of the United Nations administration our gratitude for the many acts of cooperation over the past five years of the governments of the city and state of New York and of the United States in helping us to establish the headquarters of the United Nations in New York and to meet the many practical problems connected with the presence here of 5,000 secretariat and delegation members. There are still a few questions to be settled, but I am confident that the solution satisfactory to both the United States and the United Nations will be found. A number of messages from heads of states or governments on the occasion of the United Nations Day are coming in and are being presented to the Assembly as they arrive. We are all indeed glad that the President of the United States, the country chosen for permanent headquarters of the United Nations, is able to be with us today in person. This is the third time President Truman has addressed the General Assembly of the United Nations. His personal association with the United Nations began at the beginning. Upon him, 12 days before the opening of the San Francisco Conference filled the burden and the challenge of carrying forward the great work begun by Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Cordell Hull. He took up the burden and met the challenge. Ten weeks later, he witnessed the signing of the charter on June 26, 1945. It fell to him also as chief of the government chosen to receive the instruments of ratification to proclaim the coming into force of the charter on October 24, 1945. History will record President Truman as one of the principal founders of the United Nations. as such, we honour him today and history will honour him always. That was Mr. Trigvali, the Secretary General of the United Nations. Vous venez d'entendre la locution de Monsieur Trigvali. The Assembly rises to greet Mr. Truman, the President of the United States of America. President of the United States of America. Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, the people of the United Nations. Five years ago today, the charter of the United Nations came into force. By virtue of that event, October 24, 1945, became a great day in the history of the world. Long before that day, the idea of an association of nations to keep the peace had lived as a dream in the hearts and minds of men. Woodrow Wilson was the author of that idea in our time. The organization was brought into of being on October 24, 1945, represents our greatest advance toward making that dream a reality. The United Nations was born out of an agony of war, the most terrible war in history. Those who drew up the charter really had less to do with the creation of the United Nations than the millions who fought and died in that war. We who work to carry out its great principles should always remember that this organization owes its existence to the blood and sacrifice of millions of men and women. It is built out of their hopes for peace and justice. The United Nations represents the idea of universal morality, superior to the interests of individual nations. Its foundation does not rest upon power or privilege. It rests upon faith. They rest upon the faith of men in human values, upon the belief that men in every land hold the same ideals and strive toward the same goals for peace and justice. This faith is deeply held by the people of the United States of America and I believe by the peoples of all other countries. Governments may sometimes falter in their support of the United Nations, but the peoples of the world do not falter. The demand of men and women throughout the world for international order and justice is one of the strongest forces in these troubled times. We've just had a vivid demonstration of that fact in Korea. The invasion of the Republic of Korea was a direct challenge to the principles of the United Nations. That challenge was met by an overwhelming response. The peoples of almost every member country supported the decision of the Security Council to meet this aggression with force. Few acts in our time have met with such widespread approval. In uniting to crush the aggressors in Korea, these member nations have done no more than the Charter calls for. but the important thing is that they have done it and they have done it successfully. They have given dramatic evidence that the Charter works. They have proved that the Charter is a living instrument backed by the material and moral strength of members large and small. The men who laid down their lives for the United Nations in Korea will have a place in our memory and in the memory of the world forever. they died in order that the United Nations might live. As a result of their sacrifices, the United Nations today is stronger than it ever has been. Today, it is better able than ever before to fill the hopes that men have placed in it. I believe the people of the world rely on the United Nations to help them achieve two great purposes. to help them improve the conditions under which they live and they rely on it to fulfill their profound longing for peace. These two purposes are closely interwoven. Without peace, it is impossible to make lasting progress toward a better life for all. Without progress in human welfare, the foundations of peace will be insecure. That is why we can never afford to neglect one of these purposes at the expense of the other. Throughout the world today, men are seeking a better life. They want to be freed from the bondage and the injustice of the past. They want to work out their own destinies. These aspirations of mankind can be met, met without conflict and bloodshed by international cooperation throughout the United Nations. To us in this Assembly Hall, the United Nations that we see and hear is made up of speeches, debates, and resolutions. But to millions of people, the United Nations is a source of direct help in their everyday lives. To them, it is a case of food or a box of school books. It is a doctor who vaccinates their children. It is an expert who shows them how to raise more rice or more wheat on their land. It is the flag which makes a safe haven to the refugee or an extra meal a day to a nursing mother. These are not the only ways in which the United Nations helps people to help themselves. it goes beyond these material things. It gives support to the spiritual value of men's lives. The United Nations can and does assist people who want to be free. It helps dependent peoples in their progress toward self-government. And when new nations have achieved independence, it helps them to preserve and develop their freedom. furthermore, the United Nations is strengthening the concept of the dignity and worth of human beings. The protection of human rights is essential if we are to achieve a better life for people. The efforts of the United Nations to push ahead toward an ever broader realization of these rights is one of its most important tasks. So far, this work of the United Nations for human advancement is only a beginning of what it can be and what it will be in the future. The United Nations is learning through experience. It is growing in prestige among the peoples of the world. The increasing effectiveness of its efforts to improve the welfare of human beings is opening up a new page in history. The skills and experience of the United Nations in this field will be put to the test now that the fighting in Korea is nearly ended. The reconstruction of Korea as a free, united, and self-supporting nation is an opportunity to show how international cooperation can lead to gains in human freedom and welfare. The work of the United Nations for human advancement, important as it is, can be fully effective only if we can achieve the other great objective of the United Nations, a just and lasting peace. The present time, the fear of another great international war overshadows all the hopes of mankind. This fear arises from the tensions between nations and from the recent outbreak of open aggression in Korea. We, in the United States, believe that such a war can be prevented. We do not believe that war is inevitable. One of the strongest reasons for this belief is our faith in the United Nations. The United Nations has three great roles to play in preventing wars. First, it provides a way for negotiation and the settlement of disputes among nations by peaceful means. Second, it provides a way of utilizing collective strength of member nations under the charter to prevent aggression. Third, it provides a way through which, once the danger of aggression is reduced, the nations can be relieved of the burden of armaments. All of us must help the United Nations to be effective in performing these functions. and the charter obligates all of us to settle our disputes peacefully. Today is an appropriate occasion for us solemnly to reaffirm our obligations under the charter. Within the spirit and even the letter of the charter, we shall go even further. We must attempt to find peaceful adjustments of underlying situations or tensions before they harden into actual disputes. The basic issues in the world today affect the fate of millions of people. Here in the United Nations, there is an opportunity for the large and the small alike to have their voices heard on these issues. Here, the interest of every country can be considered in the settlement of problems which are of common concern. We believe that negotiation is an essential part of this peaceful process. The United States, as one of the members of the United Nations, is prepared now as always to enter into negotiations. We insist only that negotiations be entered into in good faith and be governed throughout by a spirit of willingness to reach proper solutions. While we will continue to take advantage of every opportunity here in the United Nations and elsewhere, to settle differences by peaceful means, we have learned from hard experience that we cannot rely upon negotiation alone to preserve the peace. Five years ago, after the bloodshed and destruction of World War II, many of us hoped that all nations would work together to make sure that war could never happen again. would be sufficient to prevent aggression. of war But this was not to be the case, I am sorry to say. Although many countries promptly disbanded their wartime armies, other countries continued to maintain forces so large that they posed a constant threat of aggression. And this year, the invasion of Korea has shown that there are some who will resort to outright war, contrary to the principles of the charter, if it suits their end. In these circumstances, the United Nations, if it is to be an effective instrument for keeping the peace, has no choice except to use the collective strength of its members to curb aggression. To do so, the United Nations must be prepared to use force. The United Nations did use force to curb aggression in Korea, and by so doing, has greatly strengthened the cause of peace. I am glad that additional steps are being taken at this session to prepare for quick and effective action in any future case of aggression. The resolution on the United Action for Peace, which is now being considered by the General Assembly, recognizes three important principles. To maintain the peace, the United Nations must be able to learn the facts about any threat of aggression. and the peace-loving nations must be able to act if the threat becomes serious. Above all, the peace-loving nations must have the military strength available when called upon to act decisively to put down aggression. The peace-loving nations are building that strength. however much they may regret the necessity, they will continue to build up their strength until they have created forces strong enough to preserve the peace under the United Nations. They will do all that is required to provide a defense against aggression. They will do that because under the conditions which now exist in the world, it is the only way to maintain peace. we intend to build up strength for peace as long as it is necessary. But at the same time, we must continue to strive through the United Nations to achieve international control of atomic energy and the reduction of armaments and armed forces. Cooperative and effective disarmament would make the danger of war remote. It would be a way of achieving the high purposes of the United Nations without the tremendous expenditures for armaments which conditions in the world today make imperative. Disarmament is the course which the United States would prefer to take. It is the course which most nations would like to adopt. It is the course which the United Nations from its earliest beginnings has been seeking to follow. For nearly five years, two commissions of the United Nations have been working on the problem of disarmament. One commission has been concerned with the elimination of atomic weapons and the other with the reduction of other types of armaments and armed forces. Thus far, these commissions have not been successful in obtaining agreement among all the major powers. Nevertheless, these years of effort have served to bring to the attention of all nations of all nations the three basic principles upon which any successful plan of disarmament must rest. First, the plan must include all kinds of weapons. Outlawing any particular kind of weapon is not enough. The conflict in Korea bears tragic witness to the fact that aggression, whatever the weapons used, brings frightful destruction. Second, the plan must be based on unanimous agreements. A majority of nations is not enough. No plan of disarmament can work unless it includes every nation having substantial armed forces. one-sided disarmament is a sure invitation to aggression. Third, the plan must be foolproof. Paper promises are not enough. Disarmament must be based on safeguards which will ensure the compliance of all nations. The safeguards must be adequate to give immediate warning of any threatened violence. violation. Disarmament must be policed continuously and thoroughly. It must be founded upon free and open interchange of information across national borders. These are simple, practical principles. If they were accepted and carried out, genuine disarmament would be possible. It is true that even if initial agreements were reached, tremendous difficulties would remain. the task of working out the successive steps would still be a complex one and would take a long time and much effort. But the fact that this process is so complex and so difficult is no reason for us to give up hope of ultimate success. will of the world for peace is too strong to allow us to give up in this effort. We cannot permit the history of our times to record that we failed by default. We must explore every avenue which offers any chance of bringing success to the activities of the United Nations in this vital area. Much valuable work has already been done by the two disarmament commissions on the different technical problems confronting them. I believe it would be useful to explore ways in which the work of these commissions could now be more closely brought together. One possibility to be considered is whether their work might be revitalized if carried forward in the future through a new and consolidated disarmament commission. But until an effective system of disarmament is established let us be clear about the task ahead. The only course that peace-loving nations can take in the present situation is to create the armaments needed to make the world secure against aggression. That is the course which the United States is now firmly committed. That is the course we will continue to follow as long as it is necessary. The United States has embarked upon the course of increasing its arm strength only for the purpose of helping to keep the peace. We pledge that strength to uphold the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We believe that the peace-loving members of the United Nations join us in that pledge. I believe that the United Nations strengthened by these pledges will bring us nearer to the peace we seek. We know that the difficulties ahead are great. We have learned from hard experience that there is no easy road to peace. We have a solemn obligation to the peoples we represent to continue our combined efforts to achieve the strength that will prevent aggression. At the same time we have an equally solemn obligation to continue our efforts to find solutions to the major problems and issues that divide the nations. The settlement of these differences would make possible a truly dependable and effective system for the reduction and control of our movements. Although the possibility of attaining that goal appears distant today we must never stop trying for its attainment would release immense resources for the good of all mankind. It would free the nations to devote more of their energies to wiping out poverty, hunger and injustice. If real disarmament were achieved the nations of the world acting through the United Nations could join in a greatly enlarged program of mutual aid. As the cost of maintaining armaments decreased every nation could greatly increase its contributions to advancing human welfare. All of us could then pool even greater resources to support the United Nations in its war against war. In this way our armaments would be transformed into foods, medicine, tools for use in undeveloped areas and into other aids for human advancement. The latest discoveries of science could be made available to men all over the globe. Thus we could give real meaning to the old promise that swords shall be beaten into plowshares and that nations shall not learn war anymore. Then man can turn his great inventiveness, his tremendous energies and the resources with which he has been blessed to creative efforts. Then we shall be able to realize the kind of world which has been the vision of man for centuries. this is the goal which we must keep before us and the vision in which we must never lose faith. This will be our inspiration and with God's help we shall attain our goal. Thank you. That was the speech of the President of the United States, Mr. Harry S. Truman before the General Assembly of the United Nations. You just heard the speech pronounced by the President of the United States, Mr. Harry Truman before the General Assembly of the United Nations. and at this point as all the members of the delegations remain standing in the hall the President of the United States is escorted by the President of the General Assembly from the Speaker's Rostrum and from the Great Hall of the General Assembly of the United Nations here at Flushing Meadow and at that point the sound of the gavel coming from the Executive Assistant to Mr. Trigvali signals the end of this special plenary meeting of the United Nations General Assembly a meeting held to commemorate United Nations Day the fifth anniversary of the coming into force of the charter of the United Nations Organization. Throughout the world there have been celebrations spanning the entire globe but the main celebration has been held here at Flushing Meadow, New York during this special meeting of the 60 Nation General Assembly. At this meeting the delegates and an overflow crowd of visitors and dignitaries have heard addresses by the President of the Assembly Ambassador Nasrullah Enthozam of Iran by the Secretary General of the United Nations Mr. Trigvali and by the guest of honour Mr. Harry Truman the President of the United States. Now the delegates and visitors are leaving this hall and Mr. Truman escorted by President Enthozam of the General Assembly is going to the delegates lounge here in this Assembly Hall at Flushing for a reception during which the heads of delegations and the permanent representatives of the 60 member states of the United Nations will be presented to the United States to the President of the United States of America. And after that reception in this great hall President Truman will be the guest of Secretary General Trigvali at a luncheon at his home in Forest Hills. The keynote of today's celebration of United Nations Day was delivered by President Truman on behalf of the host country. And the central theme of President Truman's address was that peace and prosperity are indivisible and that the basic duty of the United Nations is to help peoples attain these goals. Throughout the world today the President said men are seeking a better life. They want to be freed from the bondage and the injustice of the past. They want to work out their own destinies. These aspirations of mankind can be met without conflict and bloodshed by international cooperation through the United Nations. and so for a moment we ask our listeners overseas in Europe and the Near East to stand by as we inform listeners in the United States that this concludes the broadcast of United Nations Radio of this special ceremony during the plenary session of the United Nations General Assembly at Flushing Meadow. This is United Nations Radio broadcasting from Flushing Meadow. We return American listeners now to the stations of the Continental FM network and to the studios of Station WNYC, New York.