From City Hall Plaza, your city station brings you this special public service broadcast of the graduation ceremonies of the latest group of police department recruits. Participating in the ceremonies are Vincent R. Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York, Commissioner George P. Monaghan of the City Police Department, and other municipal officials. Awards will also be given today to police department members as well as the police recruits. Gathered in front of us are the members of the police academy, and now they hand salute and Commissioner Monaghan. We shall now have the national anthem by the police glee club. The National Anthem Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight For the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare Upon bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave The invocation will now be given by Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph A. McCaffrey, chaplain of the police department. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. O almighty and eternal God, who has dominion over all mankind And who willest that all shall be saved and none perish Look down with favor upon these new members of our department Consider that they enter this department With high resolve, high ideals Determined to serve the people of the city of New York to the best of their ability Grant them the strength and courage To carry out these resolutions so that this department May continue to be the finest and the most efficient department of police in the world Grant it all that they may do or attempt to accomplish as policemen We down to the greater honor and glory of God, Amen In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen We shall now have the presentations of awards to various winners in the graduating class By his honor, Mayor Impeletari The first is the Hiram C. Bloomingdale Trophy The Regulation Service Revolver awarded to Probationary Patrolman David E. Walsh The student who attained the highest general average in all subjects Will Probationary Patrolman David E. Walsh step forward? These proceedings are taking place off the microphones of your city station Probably you can hear the murmur in the background Commissioner Monaghan is with the young patroliman As is Mayor Vincent Arm Pelletari In the background we can also see the Chief Inspector of the Police Department, Conrad Rothengast To the right of proceedings which are taking place directly in front of us We are stationed on the steps of City Hall Are the trophies They consist of wrist watches as well as Smith and Wesson revolvers In the center is one very impressive trophy which I understand is to be given by the Mayor of Teaneck, New Jersey The awards include as well as the Harry Hirschfield Award The George Monaghan Trophy The Mayor Vincent Arm Pelletari Trophy being given at the present time The Edward R. Massback Trophy The Frank J. Kieler Trophy The Harold M. Gall Trophy As well as Daily Mirror Trophies And now Commissioner Monaghan The Mayor's Trophy is awarded to Probationary Patrolman Albert G. Desmond The student who performed the outstanding act of police duty in the field during the training period Patrolman Desmond is in front of the podium now Gives a very smart salute to Commissioner Monaghan Salutes the Mayor As the newspaper men take his picture he receives his award The Commissioner The police commissioner's trophy is awarded to Probationary Patrolman Charles V. Roark The student who attained the second highest average in all subjects And the Regulation Service revolver goes to Charles V. Roark And we can see that in the background at City Hall is the huge Christmas tree Which is shortly to be lighted for Christmas And the proceedings will be broadcast by your city station We invite you to listen then Gathered on Park Row are the mounted policemen Who usually lead parades into City Hall Plaza with their green pennants Various flags are flying here Of course the flag of the United States Government The city government As well as the New York City Police Academy We are speaking to you now because the various photographers are taking pictures of the Mayor The Commissioner and the young patrolman Here again Commissioner Monaghan Chief Inspector's trophy is awarded to Probationary Patrolman Howard F. Russell The student who attained the third highest general average in all subjects The Chief Inspector's trophy as well is a Regulation Service revolver And Patrolman Howard F. Russell is receiving the handshakes of the Mayor, the Chief Inspector, and the Commissioner And they are posing again for pictures from the newsreel and still photographers You'll see these pictures in your daily newspapers, on your newsreel screens, as well as on TV Since we do see a television unit here Coming up next is the Harry Hirschfield Trophy Award Which is given each year, as you may know Mr. Hirschfield, the well-known humorist on radio, TV, as well as a newspaper columnist For the New York Daily Mirror and King Features It's a rather impressive sight here at City Hall Plaza Because the Corps of Cadets is stretched directly in front of us They're divided into three separate groups Back of them, various people are gathered in City Hall behind the police barriers, watching the proceedings In front of us, the honored guests To the right, the members of the families of the police recruits Commissioner Monaghan The Harry Hirschfield Trophy is awarded to By Mr. Harry Hirschfield, who is here To the probationary patrolman William J. Stone The student who attained the fourth highest general average in all subjects This is an annual event here at these police graduation ceremonies Mr. Hirschfield always makes it a point to be here And always makes it a point to present the trophy in person The trophy winner this time, the Harold, the Harry Hirschfield Trophy winner is Patrolman William J. Stone Mr. Hirschfield goes back to his seat Mr. Monaghan to the podium The MassFact Trophy is awarded to Patrolman Gerard T. Somerville Who attained the highest average with the Regulation Service Revolver During the training period Okay And Patrolman Somerville salutes the Mayor and the Commissioner And receives his Regulation Service Revolver That's one item he won't have to buy Commissioner Monaghan The Harold M. Gall Trophy The Harold M. Gall Trophy Is awarded by Harold M. Gall Who is here in person to the probationary patrolman Luther D. Evans The student who attained the highest general average in physical instruction And here comes Patrolman Evans With him is Mr. Gall Who is a distinguished looking gentleman about 60 years of age Rather tall and spare, grey haired And the newsreel men are clicking away furiously And possibly you can hear the noises of their cameras in the background It tends to become rather windy And the Chief Inspector now is holding down the Commissioner's papers So that he can read off them and they won't blow away Which is a rather embarrassing situation in radio or TV Commissioner Monaghan The L. J. Keeler Trophy Is to be awarded by Mr. Keeler Who I believe is here Oh To probationary patrolman Arthur T. Toole The student who attained the highest mental average And Mr. Keeler is indeed here And is presenting the trophy Which is a regulation service revolver To probationary patrolman Arthur T. Toole For the highest mental average And everyone around the podium seems to be all smiles The podium itself is a rather small affair It's just a raised square platform About six inches off the ground And the next award Will be I believe The awards of the New York Daily Mirror Once again the police commissioner Who is rearranging his papers Because as we said It is rather windy The young recruits are now marching off And you can hear the applause in the background The following persons received awards from the New York Mirror After winning Over a thousand of our participants From every section of the country At the 21st annual international pistol tournament Held last October August 14th through the 17th At Teaneck, New Jersey A four-man team consisting of Sergeant Mark Walsh Patrolman Mario Ganci And Arthur Fagan And Sergeant Victor Sargent They're to be awarded by Mr. William N. Thompson We understood earlier that the mayor of Teaneck, New Jersey Mayor Dreisler would make that award But apparently there's been some change in plans The four gentlemen step forward Render some very smart salutes And are to receive their trophies Each one of them is going to get a rather nice looking watch Which we inspected beforehand And can vouch for their good looks As we started to say before Directly in front of us Are the distinguished guests and city officials To the right and left In two separate groups Are the friends and relatives of the patrolmen Who are losing their rookie status today To become regulation patrolmen Of New York City's police force Which with good reason Is known as the group called New York's Finest Police Glee Club is here And shortly there to be led by Sergeant Edward T. Dillon In let's go around the clock with New York's Finest And of course you can hear the police glee club About once every month At six o'clock on your city station When they present a program of favorites Now the police commissioner once again The Mayor Harry Deisler Trophy Is presented by Councilman Clarence W. Brett To Sergeant Victor Sargent Who won with a perfect 300 And was the star of the tournament When he made three perfect 300s In three separate matches Councilman Brett Well you can't do very much better shooting than that So the Mayor Dreisler Trophy won by Sergeant Victor Sargent Who was also a member of the four-man team So that is two wrist watches for the sergeant With the name that starts and ends in the same way Very shortly the largest trophy of all Which seems to be about three feet high And is gleaming It may be bronze or gold-plated or brass We can't tell from here with a wooden base But the Mayor Dreisler Trophy Once again to Sergeant Victor Sargent These are the New York Mirror Awards As you may know for 21 years The annual international pistol tournament Has been sponsored by that newspaper Right now they're holding up the huge trophy We just described And it takes some holding Because it's a rather heavy affair And the city dignitaries Many dignitaries are gathered round Along with the patrolman Who wins the trophy Mayor Impeletteri The commissioner As well as dignitaries Of the Teaneck Municipal Government And as we mentioned before Everyone looks rather festive about this occasion And why not? Graduations usually are festive occasions As many of you can remember from your schoolhood days This is a rather grey day But it's not too chilly here at City Hall The order of proceedings after the final New York Daily Mirror Awards are given Are as follows There will be a psalm by Reverend Isidore Frank Selections by the Police Glee Club Including, we're told, Jingle Bells if there's time And Around the Clock Some remarks by the commissioner And addressed by the Mayor and the Benedictines By Reverend Caleb Moore Police Commissioner Monahan The James W. Girard Trophy Is awarded to Sergeant Frank Lanstate A two-time winner This award is to be made by Deputy Inspector John Wynn President of the Police Captain's Endowment Association Hi, sorry And someone else gets a rather fine trophy A watch And, uh, everybody down below is all smiles As the inspector continues to hold the papers Of the police commissioner Our view is somewhat obstructed here Because some of New York's finest are posed on the first step of City Hall With the flags of the United States Government And now, here is the police commissioner He receives the reward For having won over all women contestants Including the Armed Forces With a score of 292 out of a possible 300 This award is to be made by Detective James Shea Head of the Detectives Endowment Association And for the first time, we have a young patrol woman We very seldom see these young ladies in uniform Except around City Hall Because most of their work is done in an undercover manner But, this young lady can shoot And she did win a prize That is Detective Marion Bushy The presentation was supposed to have been made by the Chief of the Police Department of Teaneck, New Jersey Cornelius J. Hart But there seems to have been some change in plans And the young detective, Detective Marion Bushy Seems very joyous about the whole thing And we can't say that we blame her Back now to the podium Sergeant Mark Walsh Mark Walsh Won the Range Officers Match With a perfect score of 300 I don't know a great deal about pistol shooting But a perfect score, of course, is obvious to anyone If it's anything like the 300 and bowling Mr. John Carton, President of the Police Benevolent Association Will present this award Mr. Carton comes forward He is completely grey And many of you, of course, know his name Since he is frequently appearing in print As the spokesman for the policeman The PBA The Policemen's Benevolent Association Commissioner Monaghan once again And the Chief Inspector Two-man team, 38 caliber match Won by Sergeants Frank Cristalli and William Bartels This is to be awarded by Mario Biagi, President of the Columbia Society Two patrolmen come forward this time And a sort of grey mist has come over City Hall Plaza And we hope that the rain doesn't start People in the crowd seem rather apprehensive I see some are wandering away But most of the people are staying I believe that is the last of the New York Daily Mirror International Annual Pistol Tournament Awards To be given And very shortly we shall have a psalm read by the Reverend Isidore Frank Chaplin of the New York City Police Department Yes indeed it is growing more grey by the minute And there seems to be a fog of some sort rolling in And obscuring some of the building tops Commissioner George Monaghan again That concludes the awarding of the trophies We shall now have a psalm by the end We shall now have a psalm by the end We shall now have a psalm by the end We shall now have a psalm by Reverend Isidore Frank Chaplin of the Police Department Happy is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the wicked Nor standeth in the way of sinners Nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful But his delight is in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate day and night He is like a tree planted by streams of water That bringeth forth its fruit in its season Whose leaf doth not wither And whatsoever he doeth prospereth The wicked are not so They are like the chaff which the wind driveth away Wherefore the wicked shall not stand at the judgment Nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous For the Lord regardeth the way of the righteous But the way of the wicked doth perish Let us go around the clock Let us go around the clock With New York's finest See the different things Let us go around the clock Let us go around the clock Let us go around the clock With New York's finest See the different things they have to do You may think policemen really have a tree But they have lots to do besides Patroller B And you will open up your eyes in wonder As you see the unfold before your view Let us go around the clock Let us go around the clock With New York's finest See the different things they have to do You may think policemen really have a tree But they have lots to do besides Patroller B And you will open up your eyes in wonder As you see him unfold before your view Let's go around the clock With New York's finest With New York's finest Follow the men in the uniform of blue Let us go around the clock Let us go around the clock And let us go around the clock With New York's finest With know the blackjackれた men in the uniform of blue from a blue. Men, this is a happy day for me as a commissioner of a great police department. As I saw you march across the plaza, my heart really swelled with pride to see the fine, youthful ranks joining forces with a great police department. You're young, you're intelligent, you're vigorous. And despite what we've heard in recent weeks about our department being filled with misfits and rejects from private industry, your very presence here this morning gives the lie to such a silly allegation. Almost 90% of you men here this morning bore arms for this country. Bore arms while we back home could enjoy the fruits of your labors. Practically every single one of you have high school education. Many of you have college degrees. I am proud to have such high-quality men entering this department. It's a department It's a department literally filled with men of the same quality and caliber as you are. With the same high degree of intelligence. The same background. You're entering a department You're entering a department whose morale has been described as low. In the early hours this morning I was routed out of Baton to go up in the West 50s where three brave men of this department were so low in their morale that they shot it out with three miserable bandits. I visited those policemen on their beds in the hospital all of them with bullets in their body and believe me talking with them left no doubt in my mind that there was no short change in their morale. And I want to tell you and I want to tell the people of New York that there isn't the slightest basis for anybody saying the morale of this department is low because if there is anything in this world which is an indicia of morale it's the willingness of men to lay their lives on the line above and beyond the performance of duty. and this year approximately 1,700 citations have been issued to men of this department who saw fit to go out of their way above and beyond the call of duty to protect the lives and property and the people of this city. If that's low morale I want a lot more of it. And let me tell you this you young men who are coming into the department as you go about your work the reputation of the whole department is judged by the conduct of each one of you in uniform. If you're a sneak or a cheat of each one of you in uniform it's a black eye to 19,000 men and they don't deserve it. Your families don't deserve it. Always conduct yourself as gentlemen. Conduct yourself with the utmost courtesy to the people who pay your salaries. They're entitled to that and they should get it. And we all want to see that they do get it. As I've said to other graduating classes now that you have the uniform the badge of authority and carry a gun the indicia of power a lot of new friends will try to worm their way into your confidence. Stick to your old friends. People will try to give you things. Shun it. Because anybody that's coming up with a gift they're looking for a favor from you men. They're trying to get you indebted to them so if they want to cut the corners of the law or of laws your hands will be bound. You want be clear conscience you'll not be able to give the people 100% performance as a police officer. So beware of those people bearing gifts. Most of you men are family men. Most of you have wives and children. If you stay true to your home your wives and your children and your God nobody need fear about your conduct. The police department and the people of the city can be proud of you and they will be proud of you. So as you go on your way today I wish each and every one of you Godspeed. Good luck to all of you and be a credit to our city. That was the police commissioner of the city of New York the honorable George B. Monahan. And speaking of morale a minute or two ago I want to tell you I feel that there is one man here today who is greatly responsible for it. He has shown himself over the years to be a steadfast and stalwart friend of this department. Through his efforts longer vacations were granted to him. Shorter hours are in prospect in the very near future. Higher salaries reduced pension rates all at the hands of the next speaker our beloved mayor Vincent Impelitri. Mr. Monahan Reverend members of the clergy graduates of the police academy go for winners your families and friends. As chief executive of our city I warmly welcome you into the ranks of the New York City Police Department. I have always been proud of our police and therefore it is a particular privilege for me to participate in these exercises and to congratulate you on your graduation from the police academy. You are taking your places in the ranks of the regular police force at a time when there is much discussion about the police department and its value to the community. Some are on your side. Others are against you. Some say our police force should be larger. Others say it is too large now. Let me tell you where I stand. I am on your side. You and your brother officers have my admiration and respect and I pledge to you and to the public that I will do everything within my power to strengthen the police department. Several weeks ago at about the time of your appointment to the police department our people were justly concerned by the viciousness of certain types of crime occurring within our city. after talking with representatives of civic groups with religious leaders with representatives of neighborhood groups with the police commissioner the chief inspector and other ranking members of the police department I became more determined than ever to urge that a growing prosperous city like our New York must have more policemen. Therefore, I move to make certain that the necessary funds for more policemen were made available. Consequently, your appointments were made possible. The addition of your numbers to the force presently provides the department with an actual strength of 18,886. In other words, we are still close to 1,000 short of the present quota of 19,847 as set up by the Board of Estates. Here in New York in common with thousands of other communities we, of course, have our financial difficulties. These always bring about demands for economy. Frequently, these demands come from the very groups who loudly protest any cuts in services. I am in agreement with the spirit of economy. I have worked for economy. But it would be the worst kind of economy to skimp on the safety of the lives and properties of 8 million people. Our people want more patrolmen in the streets. They are entitled to them and I am seeing to it that they get them. in fact, I want to guarantee the people of the city of New York that the actual strength of their police force will be brought up to the full quota of 19,847 members just as soon as the funds can be made available to fulfill that quota. I will not economize on the public safety. Among your graduating class of 791 probationary patrolmen are 747 veterans of the armed services. I am proud to greet you and to pray that each one of you will bring the same honor to the uniform you now wear as you did to the one you wore in the armed forces. As policemen, you will be called upon to uphold and administer the laws of our city with justice. My only advice to you is to carry out these duties with courtesy to the public you serve and without fear or favor. You are prepared to meet any eventuality. You will be frequently called on to use your own good judgment and common sense. Use them and use them well. And by your loyal service you will contribute immeasurably to the progress and happiness of your city. One last word. At a public meeting the other day it was stated that New York's police force is no longer the finest. Don't you believe it for one minute. In my estimation as mayor and in the estimation of the people of this city you serve. You are still the finest. And you will always be the finest police force in the world. Good luck. And may God bless you in your new assignment. Thank you. That was the Honorable Vincent Arm Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York. And now your host for today the police commissioner. Benedictine will now be pronounced by Reverend G Caleb Moore, Chaplain of the police department. The benediction will now be pronounced by Reverend G. Caleb Moore, chaplain of the police department. And now may the blessing of God the Father, Christ the Son, and the Holy Spirit the Comforter abide with you all now and forever. Amen. You've been listening to the graduation ceremonies for the latest group of police department recruits. Principal speakers were Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere and Commissioner George P. Monahan of the police department of this city who presided. This broadcast has come to you as a public service direct from City Hall Plaza through the facilities of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. You've been listening to Creation. It's exciting! It's exciting! I think this has come under some impressiveением of guests, and some massive staff you look nadzieję was philanthropic Mr covenant team, here,acağ museum desk and advice, direct service they had seen in members of their new education. They are close to you again but make sure they didn't get 유<|he|> Quick glosses of that statement to get to talks soon. On your錯読 преп them to take that distance to the process that they arrived, it took you a highsem Chevron