...classifications and the distinction between the felony and the misdemeanor. Well, now, assuming you're correct, Commissioner, on your own statement here, you've got sex offenses classified under one head, sex offenses. In 1936, there were 1,251. In 1937, there were 1,892, an increase of approximately 40 to 50 percent in that particular classification of crime. Now, to my mind and to the mind of Mr. Cashmore, who introduced this resolution with me, we believe that the increase in crime can be attributed in some measure, I won't say completely, to the fact that there is an inadequacy of police protection in the city of New York. Are we correct in that assumption, Commissioner? To some extent, yes. Yes. Now, you men represent all parts of the city of New York. I say you men, I also want to include Mrs. Earle. You know how rapidly the city of New York has been building up, how rapidly it's been developing. You know very well that only a few years ago, there were farms and vacant fields, particularly in the Bronx and Brooklyn and Queens and Richmond. You know that today, those farms and vacant fields are homes, one and two family homes, apartments. With it came schools, churches, shopping, and recreational facilities. And what does it mean to the police department? We've got to move in there and protect the lives and property of those folks and enforce laws. We've got to shorten posts. We've got to provide adequate protection to the best of our ability. And that has happened in so many places in the Bronx, Queens, Brooklyn, Richmond. Now, I have some statistics here to show you the percentage of crimes in the different boroughs and the percentage of the members of the department that are assigned. Also, the areas of the different boroughs. All of that is at your disposal. And don't forget that we haven't neglected this issue. That his honor, the mayor and I have discussed this probably a hundred times. You know, there weren't any members of the department appointed. No, not even replacements. Thirty-three, there were 49 men. There were none in 34, none in 35. But since 36, there's been approximately 2,500 men appointed. Since 36. Well, that's not the important thing, is it? There were many deaths and many retirements. That's making a difference. Wait a minute now. I'm not talking about replacements, but I'm talking not only replacements, but additional men. In 33, 33, 34, 35, and 36. When do we begin to make appointments? In 36. 33, 34, and 35. There weren't even replacements. Because he meant that men that died, that retired, that were dismissed or that resigned weren't even replaced. And the result was that there was an acute shortage. But why? Because of the desperate financial condition of the city of New York. Now, His Honor of the Mayor, in talking these matters over, certainly he recognizes the need for more men. He wants to provide them just as soon as he can find the money to do so. Commissioner, let me ask you one question. Isn't it a fact that we have less patrolmen outside of higher ranking officials of the police department than we did five or six years ago? No, you're wrong about that. All right. Then how many more would you say that we have today than we had five or six years ago? If we have 16,610, or approximately that number, patrolmen today, who have their special details or their details, how many men were there five or six years ago? Patrolmen. Not higher ranking officials. Don't forget that you've had approximately 800 civilians appointed, most of whom have replaced men that were assigned to other than regular duty. So I better go out on the street. Now, I have the figures here. In connection with... Well, I just want to ask that one question. All right. How many more men have we today than we had five years ago as patrolmen? In your resolution, you say, whereas in 1929, the police department had a personnel consisting of 17,253 patrolmen. Yes. The records show that instead of 17,253 patrolmen in 1929, we had 15,853 patrolmen. Now, there is quite a little difference. Because in 10 years, with the population of the city increasing at the rate of 100,000 people per year, almost a million in 10 years, the increase in the number of patrolmen is something like 900 to 1,000. Is that right? Oh, no. Oh, no. In 1938, we have 16,666 patrolmen. Of course, we must admit that there has been an increase in the population, but not to the extent of 100,000 years. That's controller McGoldrick's own statement that he made in one of his addresses here in the city of New York. Well, I don't know what the controller said, but we're taking our figures from the Department of Health. Well, now... And we're not going to get into any controversy about... No, I'm just saying where I got that figure from, from controller McGoldrick. I don't know any more about it than some of the men in this room here. But those are the facts that were given in that speech by controller McGoldrick. Well, at any rate, Commissioner, you were saying something about your cooperating with the mayor. And I'm reminded of a statement that appeared on December 5, 1937, sometime before I spoke to you, where you stated... Or at least I'll give you the story of it and see whether you still agree with the contents. Bitterly protesting his department is treated like a stepchild. Well, police commissioner Valentine said yesterday he needs 4,000 more men if the city's 6,000 miles of streets are to be kept safe. Stung by the remarks that inadequate policing was responsible for the murder of 60-year-old Charles Klein in Central Park, Valentine, in a statement considered by some as criticism of Mayor LaGuardia, declared, We need more men and we need a lot of new equipment. Horses and motorcycles, for instance. Other departments get new equipment. Get me straight. I'm not jealous of these other departments, but we need it. Maybe we are the stepchild. Everything Bob Moses says is correct. We need more men and should have them. Every time Bob Moses opens a parkway, beach, or playground, that means more protection. I am in perfect accord with everything he says, but we're doing the best we can. I know the city has certain financial limitations, but if we could have 4,000 more men, we could adequately cover the city and we could more fully cover the parks, especially. The 1938 budget allows me only 145 additional men as against. The 4,000 we should have after present vacancies are filled. The traffic division alone is shy of 400 men. We could use 1,000 more men in this department. The detective division is short, and we could use 500 additional men in the parks and parkways if we had them. We've been robbing Peter to pay Paul, taking men away from their duties as patrolmen, and using them for the protection of payrolls, strike duties, and other extra details, which reduces our hourly police force to cover the entire city to but 3,228 men. On December 1st, there was a total of 10,761 men on patrol duty for the entire 24 hours, which means that there were but 3,228 men to patrol the streets that day. We have approximately 624 men on strike duty, and sometime during every 24 hours, we have to detail 1,000 men to protect the carrying of payrolls. And it must be remembered that 95% of all the banks in the city are covered 24 hours a day, which keeps these men from performing their full duty as patrolmen. Now that is the statement that was printed in the New York American on December 5, 1937. Some of that is correct, Councilman. Is it correct that you asked for 4,000 more patrolmen, at least that you said that we could use them? Yes, but I didn't say anything about banks being covered 24 hours a day. That's manifestly absurd. You know that. You know that. What is said there about the 4,000 additional men is true. What is said there about every time a new park, a playground, a parkway, a bathing bathhouse, a swimming pool is open, requiring policing of course is true, as you know. So we must extend, we must include every new venture within the limits of the city of New York, and we must police it. All right, just two or three more questions and I'm through. On May the 8th, 1938, when they had a preview of the World's Fair, there were approximately 500,000 people at the World's Fair. You assigned 2,000 men. Your estimate, your estimate is very marked. I take these from the newspapers. I mean, I don't... You don't take everything from the newspapers, do you? Well, I believe the newspapers are accurate, at least 99% of the time. I agree with you. The newspapers reported that... My respect to the boys. The newspapers reported that there were 2,000 men, patrolmen, patrolling the World's Fair grounds at that time. Is that true? No, there were about 1,600. About 1,600. Well, now what will happen when we open the World's Fair on May the 1st, and you will have every day in the World's Fair grounds the same number? Must you take 1,600 men away from their precincts in the city and bring them there? No, no, no. Please. Please be reasonable. Now, I know what you're going to say. That the World's Fair Corporation has its own police... No, no, no, no, no. I'm not going to say anything of the kind. You know better than that. We've got to police this city. We've got to get the 50 million people that are expected to come here in and out of the city of New York. Now, we may have to go into the World's Fair to cooperate and assist, particularly in aided cases and accident cases. But, you know, we may have a little bit of congestion here for the first week, probably less than the first week. And then it will be just a routine job. I have a very interesting letter here that I got today. And it might... It's so interesting... That it might be... Well, to read it for the information of the councilman. This is a letter that's sent to Judge Bays, the presiding justice of the Court of Special Sessions, an answer to an inquiry that he addressed to Mayor Kelly in Chicago concerning crime during the two years that they had the Century of Progress in operation. Then he sent it to his Honour of the Mayor, and his Honour of the Mayor sent it to me. And this address to the Honourable William R. Bays, Chief Justice, caught a special session to the City of New York. 32 Franklin Street, New York, New York. Dated January the 11th, 1939. Honourable Sir. Your letter addressed to the Honourable Edward J. Kelly, Mayor, City of Chicago, was referred to me for attention and reply. Hence, this communication. A careful study of our records for the year 32 preceding the World's Fair and 33 and 34, the years of the Fair, discloses that contrary to expectations, in most instances, there was a decrease in crime in Chicago during the period of the Fair, rather than an increase. At no time was it necessary to increase the usual court facilities. That, in substance, was the gist of Judge Bays' inquiry. Inasmuch as the criminal court deals only with indictable felonies, I have checked our findings with the Bureau of Criminal Information and Statistics, Chicago Police Department, and the Chicago Crime Commission, an independent agency covering all courts of criminal jurisdiction in Chicago, and find their records, and find their records, verify our findings. The following statistical table covering the five-month period of the fair season, as well as the entire year, will give you a comprehensive idea of the various ratios. The following shall be Also, shall web 3% during the fair, 4 and 6 tenths percent for the full year. Rape, reduction of 21 and 2 tenths percent over the full year, 8 and 8 tenths percent. Other sex crimes, reduction of 37 and 5 tenths during the fair, the entire year, 16, 9. Disorderly conduct, for the fair, 9, 8, for the year, 7, 3. Increases, get this. It's important. Pickpockets, 61 and 38, 100 percent increase during the five-month period of the fair. For the full year, 22 and 9 tenths percent. Larcenies, 10 and 29, 100 percent increase for the fair and for the year, 7, 9. Now, in that connection, two or three months ago, we took 50 bright young men and transferred them to the pickpocket squad. Why? Because of the training period necessary. We've done that in a number of other important departments, anticipating that very thing. Now, we go to 34, as compared with 33. The same crimes. Reductions. 34, as you know, is the second year of the fair. For the five-month period, 1 and 4 tenths in burglary, 6 percent for the year. Robbery. Robbery. Robbery. For the fair, 7 and 5 tenths and 12 percent for the year. Assault. 18 and 8 tenths percent. For the period of the fair, an 18 and 2 tenths percent for the year. Now, there are two crimes there that they don't differentiate in, as you gentlemen have observed. One is assault, whether it's felonious or third-degree assault, and larcenies, whether it's grand larceny or pettit larceny. Rake in 1934 is over 1933 for the period of the fair. Reduction of 19 and 4 tenths percent, and for the year, 14 percent. Other sex crimes. Fair 17-5 for the year 21-7. Disorderly conduct, 1 and 4 tenths for the fair, and 1 and 9 tenths for the year. Now, instead of increases on pocket picking and larcenies, we have a 10 percent over the previous year on pickpockets during the fair, and an 8 and 3 tenths percent during the year. And on larcenies, a 10 and 8 tenths percent during the fair, and a 12 and 8 tenths percent during the year. Now, this is short. There's only one additional paragraph, and I'd like you to hear it. This splendid record was due entirely to the efficiency of the Chicago Police Department, who was less than a 3 percent increase in personnel, and despite the added responsibility of handling over 21 million visitors in 1933, and over 13 million in 34, accomplished the above results through efficient reorganization of all details, improvement, modernization of automotive and radio equipment, and coordination and cooperation of the Chicago Police, the Fair Police, and the Park Police. Trusting this is the information you seek, and assuring you of my willingness to be of assistance to you, I beg to remain faithfully yours, Thomas J. Bowler. The O2 doesn't agree with me that you will have to assign patrolmen from the different precincts for traffic duty at the World's Fair. Is that right? Councilman, it isn't today or yesterday we started. As you know, we've been working for a year and a half, anticipating every condition, every situation that might confront us, the opening of the World's Fair. Certainly, we've got to bring the people in from the east, west, north, and south, probably, even from easterly Long Island. Certainly, we're going to need men for traffic duty. We're going to need detectives. We're going to need additional men in the emergency service. And if today you need 4,000 men, how many will you need when the World's Fair opens? Well, of course, 4,000. More, undoubtedly. Absurd, 4,000. You said it yourself. Oh, how do you know I said it? I didn't say I said it. You just said that. You told me a second ago that you agreed with me when I read that statement. Yeah. As far as the 4,000 more patrolmen is concerned, that's true. Didn't you say it? Listen, I said that that statement was substantially correct. And I did say that I spoke about 4,000 men. Certainly, I'd like to have 4,000. But you're a reasonable man. You know what 4,000 men mean, don't you? Of course you do. For every 1,000 men you appoint in the police department, 100 men means $200,000. 1,000 men means $2 million. When? The first year. At the end of five years, it means $3 million. But when burglary increase 33% and sex offenses increase 50%, there's time for action. Councilman. Not further in evil. I'm not further in consideration. I said when I started out with Joe Baldwin that I'm here as a witness and I'm not going to debate any issues with you. I know, but you're debating with me, too. I beg your pardon. I'm a witness. Now, let's get down on the ground. Just one more question. Commissioner, have you made up your departmental estimates for the police department? Have you submitted it to the budget director? It's already gone. And is there any increase in the personnel of the patrolmen for... Are you talking now about the first half of 39 or the 1939-40 budget? 1939. First half of 1939 for the six months? Yes. Yeah, we got... We're going to get men. We're going to get some men. 500 men is no good because you've got to divide them into three platoons. We need 1,500 men. We hope to be able to get them. You mean more men? 1,500 more men? Yeah. That's only for the last six months? For the first six months of 39. And how about 1940? 1940. 1940. 1939-40. The fiscal year of 1939-40. We have... The full quota was still about 587 men short from that mythical quota that was established by the Board of Estimates in 1931, wherein the maximum number employed to be employed in the police department was set as 19,331. We're still about 587 patrolmen short. I ask for the filling of all ranks. Every rank, patrolmen up, and 1,000 additional men. Now, Mr. Cashmore and I have received many requests to ask you one question with respect to the average number of patrolmen that assigned a special duty, such as guarding payrolls, strike duties, parades, fingerprint work. I understand that you have assigned men from the police department to do fingerprint work, where you have a civil service list of fingerprint technicians. Is that right? That's correct. Now, sport events and banks. How many on the average would you say patrolmen are assigned to those functions and duties? On an eight-hour... Well, we take your first question. Yeah. Will you break it up now? Uh, guarding payrolls. Huh? Guarding payrolls. Well, of course, I can't give you that figure. Uh, that's high. But... It's real police duty because it's crime prevention. But under the... It protects life and it prevents crime. That's the answer to that. You know under the administrative code that a corporation may have a special patrolman... I know all about that and I'm the guy that appoints him. That's right. And paid by the corporation now. Not by you. Oh, I know all about that. I know that. But instead of that, you appoint your own patrolman and they're assigned a payroll duty. In the protection of life... Well, naturally. And the prevention of crime. Now, how many would you say on an eight-hour tour of duty? On an eight-hour shift, how many out of the 3,200 that are patrolmen, how many would be... Where do you get that figure from? 3,200. I get the figure that you gave. I'm violating my own regulation because I said I wouldn't... I wouldn't debate... Those are the figures that you gave, Commissioner. Who gave? You did. When? Well, in the first place... When? In December, 1937? Well, all right. Then make it 3,100 or 3,300. Approximately 3,200. Isn't it about that? We might have 1,000 payrolls to cover and probably more of a Friday or a Saturday. And one man may be able to take care of three or four in a couple of hours. On the other hand, it may take a man or two men, if necessary, guarding an unusually large payroll. It may take three or four or five or six hours. All depends upon the circumstance, the amount involved, the location, and all these other things that are taken into consideration. So that, uh, you couldn't, uh, answer with reason? Well, I can get you the figures, Counselor, but I can't give it to you now. How about strike duties? Strike. Yeah, I know, but I mean on the average. Well, here. Well, let's read from this. Recapitulation. 23 large parades required. 24,955 foot patrolmen, 1,292 mounted patrolmen, 268 motorcycle patrolmen, or a total of 26,515. I'm coming to your question. 34 large demonstrations required. 3,445 patrolmen. 269 mounted patrolmen, or 3,714 total. 10 large strikes required. 1,426 patrolmen. 110 mounted patrolmen, 153 motorcycle patrolmen, for a total of 1,689. Now, large public gatherings. 21,659. 824, excuse me, mounted patrolmen. 256 motorcycle patrolmen. 20,000, for a total of 22,739. How about those assigned to wiretapping? You have many men that signed to wiretapping. You take them away from the precinct. What is wiretapping? I never heard of it. Wiretapping? Yeah. Well, I think you call it taps. Wiretaps. Well, I'm... I call it wiretaps when I was an assistant district attorney. Oh. Now we're going places. You were an assistant district attorney. Oh, certainly. You remember me. Oh, very well. Very well. And I also, I also... All right. That's all. Congressman Strauss is recognized. Commissioner, you know that I've been interested in a relatively more peaceful aspect of your activities. And... I beg your pardon. I said, Commissioner, I wanted to ask you a few questions about traffic, which you know I've been interested in for some time. In the discussions that I've had, particularly with Inspector Shee, he has said that with regard to the Midtown Traffic Division of the Department, that if he had 200 or 300 extra men, he could do a better job than is being done now. I don't know how satisfied you've been with... I have academic, cautious, so. You know that. Well, now, what I'd like to ask you is this. Have you prepared any written report, or are you inclined to prepare, or are you intending to prepare, any written statement in your annual report this year in which you will give us some sort of a breakdown on patrol hours, patrolman hours, so as to give us just the sort of thing that you've given us here this afternoon, but more in detail and more precisely, so that we can see how you estimate the need for additional patrolmen. Do you think that's the proper place for anything like that, Councilman, in a report? Well, I would... If you don't want to put it in an annual report, would you be prepared to send it into this Council? Because I think that we're all interested in trying to help you, but in order to do that, we'd like to have a detailed breakdown along the lines of what you've given us this afternoon. What do you mean a breakdown of what? How the traffic men work? No, no. You're talking about traffic. No, I'm... You're talking about traffic. Now, I'm... Now, I beg your pardon, just a minute. Uh, I'm talking... I'm interested in traffic, yes. But I understand that any increase in the number of men assigned to the traffic division depends on your other needs for the department. That's correct, isn't it? Oh, I wouldn't say that. You know very well that traffic is not a secondary consideration here, because one of the primary duties that we'll have during the World's Fair, one of the most important, is to move not only our own people, but the millions of visitors that are coming here, to move them in and out of the World's Fair and to take care of them while they're here. Now, you're very much interested in traffic, as everybody that knows you knows. And you know about the approximate number of men that were short in traffic. Well, are you planning to transfer additional men to traffic duty during the fair? I... Or haven't you got... I'll either have to transfer them or temporarily assign them if I don't get any additional men. That's bad, too. Mr. President, we have a little order, because it's... I can get it for you. Will Councilman Baldwin and Hollander kindly take their seats? That'll get you order. Uh... Commissioner, would you continue with that statement? Or interrupt it, I'm sorry. We're going to move them in and out. Now, it's bad to take them from other places, because it is. We can't get away from it robbing Peter to pay Paul. Where can we get them if we don't get additional men, except from taking them from the patrol? We can't get away from the patrol precincts, where they're required to patrol residential areas and business areas, commercial areas, industrial areas. What are your plans for the fair? Let me ask you this. This is another... This is a suggestion which was made by the Mayor's Traffic Committee a year and a half or so ago, that possibly it would relieve your traffic problem if men of lower ranks were assigned a traffic duty, such as men off the eligible list. You can't express yourself on that at this time, because that would be a less expensive way of solving the traffic problem. A lot of theories about that, and nobody knows it better than you. And this is no place to bring it up. Councilman, I'd suggest that you make an appointment to meet the commissioner and go over that. Councilman, Mr. President, just one second. I've got the commissioner here now, and I'm trying to treat him with every consideration. I'm very seriously interested in this. I've had many informal conversations with the commissioner and with all of his assistants. I'm trying to find out very seriously and without embarrassing him in any way just exactly what he proposed to do when the world's fair traffic increase comes. And I think that I'm entitled to a serious answer on that question. Now, he either has to transfer men, as I understand it, from other police duties, which he doesn't want to do, perhaps, or he's got to add new men. Now, if he's going to add new men, he's just pointed out that a new policeman cost $2,000 the first three years. The suggestion has been made, and I'm not making any special plea for this suggestion this afternoon, but the suggestion has been made that possibly men could be taken off the eligible list. At $1,500, this helps solve this problem. But I don't want to press that suggestion. I just wanted to know what the commissioner's plans are with reference to traffic for the world's fair. I think that the traffic situation is a serious one. I think that a lot of other people feel that way, and I'm trying to help the commissioner. I'm not trying to embarrass him. I'll be glad to answer you, councilman. Nothing embarrasses me. The connection with my department, nothing. Well, will you answer that question? Oh, sure. I'll be glad to. Be glad to. I didn't think you were serious. I didn't think you were serious. We wanted to discuss it. Because, after all, we have discussed it so frequently. Now, breaking down your question. First of all, I expect a decided increase in the members of the Uniformed Force between now and the opening of the World's Fair. We hope to get them soon enough so that we'll be able to train them and have them ready for the opening of the World's Fair. Most of them will be assigned where they're most needed or for replacement purposes. We don't like to put young rookies out in traffic. There are any number of applications of men who have seniority. And when those men are selected for traffic duty, to increase the number of men assigned to traffic duty, wherever there are holes where those men were taken from, they can seize. Taking into consideration, of course, the residences of the new recruits, send them within a reasonable distance of their homes for replacement purposes. Now, we have been discussing for three years, as you know, the appointment of men from the eligible list of parking supervisors, special patrolmen, giving them police power, police authority, a sort of a training school for them while they're awaiting appointment. We've given it up in the hopes of getting real policemen. I mean by that, men that are appointed from the eligible list as patrolmen in the police department and not special patrolmen. We may not be able to accomplish that right away, but eventually we hope to be able to do it. And at the ratio that we've been not only filling, not only taking care of all the vacancies in addition to replacements, why, it won't be long before we're back where we should be with the full quota, plus 500 or 1,000 more. All the men need, find the money for it. But you have no immediate plan with reference to the fair. Yes, we have immediate plans, but we have a book full of plans. Well, do you expect to get the 1,000 men before April 30th? No, we couldn't assimilate 1,000 men, and you know that. Well, I know that, but that's what you were... Between now and April 30th. What I'm in hopes of getting is an adequate number of men so that we can fill up all the holes in the traffic division and put the men on traffic where they'll be most needed. So that we'll have no... no unusual delays going in and out. Where else would I get them from? Some... you know that. No, but doing fingerprint work, you've got some of your patrolmen when they've got a list of the... Mr. President, I haven't given up the floor yet. Well, I'd just like to suggest to the commissioner, I think it would be very helpful to this council. I don't care whether he does it in his annual report or in a memorandum to the council, if he cares to do it that way. I don't care if he cares about it that way.