I think we have a rare privilege this morning in being able to present a guest whose abilities and personality rank him as one of the outstanding musicians of our time. A few days ago, Dr. Leopold Stokowski was visiting our WNYC studios, and we had the opportunity to talk to him about American music and American composers, which has been one of the prime concerns of Maestro Stokowski. I was certain our own New York listeners would enjoy meeting Dr. Stokowski, so we recorded our few minutes together, and I'd like you to hear it now. Maestro is not only interested in musicians, but the public as well, for musicians depend upon the public for support. Maestro, I know that your schedule is a pretty full one, but, well, we've been most interested in the Museum of Modern Art and the fine work they're doing on the art line, and I was most interested to learn that you're planning a fine series of concerts. Would you like me to tell you about these concerts we're going to give? I was hoping you'd ask me that. Yes, I think we'd all be interested in knowing. How many concerts are scheduled? They will be two concerts, and they're both in the Museum of Modern Art in New York here, and what I would like to do is to do for music what this museum has done so wonderfully for painting and for sculpture. Right. Anybody can go to that museum and see on those walls, well lit, the paintings of all talented young American painters and from painters all over the world as well. Also sculpture. In music, we'd like to do that same kind of thing, so the first two concerts, we are planning many concerts, but the first two concerts will be in the Museum of Modern Art. October 26th, that's a Sunday, and then the following Tuesday, October the 28th. As a matter of fact, that's this coming Sunday and Tuesday evenings. What type of music are you planning to feature, Maestro? The program will be exclusively of young, talented, and so far not very well-known American composers. Wonderful. We are not including the American composers who are well-known because they are having many performances all the time, but these younger men, less known, have little performances and sometimes none at all. I think it's very important that they should hear their own music because they write it on paper first, but music is not paper. Music is sound. They must hear it sounding. And then, not only the composer, he will hear it sounding and see if he's done what he wanted to do when he wrote it down, whether he's realized his dream of that music. Then also, that those in the public who are interested in that kind of music, in the modern American symphonic, so-called serious music, that that public shall also have opportunity to hear it. Well, I'd say it was a project that would be of great benefit both to composer and those of us just of the general public who listen. Still, I have a feeling a project of this sort, well, the expense and effort needed would be just about tremendous. Everybody, in fact, is giving their services for this, except the actual artists who are playing the music. Naturally, they should be and will be paid for the services. But the whole idea is still farther than that, to make such concerts eventually all over the United States. Because here, in this vast land of ours, we have three great publics. Sometimes we speak of the public like this and they don't like that. But we must remember that there are many publics. In fact, every person who listens to music, who is interested in music, has a different reaction to music. Because all our personalities and our heritage from our parents and ancestors, it's all different. And that all goes into our personalities and into the way we listen and react to music. But the three main huge masses of listeners interested in music, naturally the greatest is that public which is interested in the popular music of America. Yes. Which is, in a sense, the expression of our life of humor and rhythm for dancing. And it's the folk music of America. That has many kinds, of course. But there are millions who are interested in that kind of music. But a smaller public is interested in the great classical music of the 18th and 19th and first half of the 20th centuries of the great European masters. This music is wonderfully played by our splendid symphony orchestras all over the country. Now, there's a third public, and it's a very small public, but in my opinion, a very important one. And that is the public that's interested in the modern American classical symphonic music. It might be music of a great symphony for a large orchestra of about 100 players. Or it could be music for a chamber orchestra with players of 20 or 22, 24 players. Or it could be chamber music, playing three or four or five artists, playing the chamber music, a very intimate kind of music. Yes, well, I'd say that would be about the smallest type of all. This public is small, but it's very important, it's very intelligent, it's progressive-minded, it's open to new ideas, it's willing to make the effort to try to understand what our talented young composers are. I think it will be favorable. I certainly hope so. Because there has been a great development in the understanding of the idiom of modern American symphonic music since I first conducted that music. But what we need are players and singers who understand this new idiom of the American composer, because the idiom is different, quite different from that of the European composer. Exactly what do you do? I mean, I imagine colleges and universities would be very important in developing. I imagine that anyone with European training might find it a little difficult to bridge the gap between the two, well, as you say, idioms. That is why it is difficult to find artists who understand that idiom. But I believe we have found those for these two concerts. In fact, I know we have. All over the United States now are colleges, conservatories of music, universities, all kinds of educational institutions where young, talented American musicians of every kind are being trained. And the sad part is that when they come out from those educational institutions, very often they cannot find a scope for the outlet of their talents and of their training. Well, Dr. Stokowski, I feel that seeing as how you are making such a concerted effort and such a wonderful effort to assure these young musicians of talent, both from, oh, composing as well as singers and other performers, that the future of music in young America is certainly looking up. And I certainly appreciate you giving us these few minutes from your very busy schedule to tell our Around New York listeners about the two concerts coming up, one this Sunday and one this coming Tuesday at the Museum of Modern Art. And let me say thanks again, and I assure you, we'll be there. Goodbye. Goodbye.
