Everyone in this city knows of Mayor O'Dwyer's intense interest in food conservation. He has instructed his entire administration to cooperate wholeheartedly with the federal and state programs to conserve food so that Europe's starving millions can be better fed. Feeding hungry people is not only a humanitarian endeavor, it is necessary to preserve peace and democracy. Starving masses cannot be expected to remain peaceful. But the Mayor is also interested in the protection of the health of New Yorkers. We in the Health Department are happy to have this opportunity to assure you that if you participate properly in the food conservation program, you will improve your eating habits and thereby improve your health. The foods we are particularly urged to save are wheat, poultry, eggs and meat. This saving can be accomplished in two ways. The first and most important way is to use all food which is purchased. You housewives especially who are listening now must plan your family's meals in advance. In this way you will know exactly how much to buy and how to use leftovers. In order to prevent waste through spoilage, do not buy too much food at one time. This is especially true of perishable foods such as meat, eggs, fish, poultry and dairy products. Keep all perishable foods under adequate refrigeration and steeple such as cereals and flour in clean receptacles in cool closets. If you follow these simple rules, you will avoid wasting food through spoilage and poor planning. The second way in which you can save the vital foods is in not eating more of them than you need. Except for those persons who do not have the wherewithal to purchase food, most Americans eat too much for their own good. It is estimated that Americans purchased one-fifth more food per capita than they require. Let us consider now only the foods we have been asked to conserve, namely wheat, poultry, eggs and meat. Everyone should eat a good breakfast. Unfortunately, many Americans, even those who eat too much at other times, neglect this important meal. But a good breakfast from a nutritional standpoint need not be a heavy one. Only persons engaged in strenuous labor and adolescent children require a very large breakfast. The average person doesn't require bread and cereal, both together at the same meal. One or the other is sufficient, provided, of course, he has other foods such as fruit and milk. To serve your health best, make certain the bread or cereal you eat is of the whole grain or enriched variety, so that you may get your share of minerals and vitamins. Remember that wheat is also used in cakes, cookies, crackers, waffles and griddle cakes. All of these, in addition to bread and cereal, contain wheat. These items can safely be reduced to a minimum in the diet, for although they do contain some bodybuilding nutrients, they are chiefly a source of calories. They are the foods avoided by people who want to keep trim and slim. Bread certainly can be eliminated from meals at which potatoes or cereal foods, such as rice, macaroni or spaghetti are served. And when you eat in a restaurant, please ask only for the amount of bread you know you will eat. It is important not only that you refrain from eating more wheat products than you require, but also that you do not permit bread and cake which you purchase to be wasted. First of all, try to buy only the amount you need. Now that may be difficult at times to estimate. And if any is left over and does become stale, don't throw it away. There are many wholesome, delicious ways to utilize stale bread and cake. Now I'm not going to take the time to tell you about it now, but if there are any here who don't know, please just drop a postcard to the health department, 125 worse treatment happens, and ask for ways to use these products. We will be very glad to send you suggestions. We have a division of nutrition and a number of excellent nutritionists that will be glad to send you all of the materials that you need. Forgotten, poultry eggs and meats are protein foods. That is, they are the kind of food used by the body to promote growth and repair worn tissue. You have been asked to forego meat at least one day a week. Now the other foods which are good sources of protein are eggs, fish, milk, cheese, and certain legumes, vegetables such as dried peas and lentils. All of these foods are available. Recipes for appetizing dishes made of these foods are also available at the health department, and we will be very glad to send you them if you just drop us a line. Remember to use fruits and vegetables generously. These two are abundant and varieties are available to fit every budget. In your zeal to cooperate with the food conservation program, I hope that none of you will make the mistake of practically eliminating the vital foods from your diet. You know, dieting is a dangerous process to people who are ignorant of the basic facts of nutrition. If you do diet, you must diet intelligently if you stay out of trouble. You should cut down on the bulk, on the quantity of food, yes, but you must not eliminate foods that are essential to the body's welfare. Everyone, particularly children and pregnant and nursing women, should have high-protein diets. They must have eggs, meat, and especially milk. These people, as well as those engaged in strenuous activity, require whole-grain bread and cereals. All that is asked of them is not to waste the food. Also, please remember that liver, kidneys, and heart are highly nutritious meats. Surprising to know the number of people who never eat them. And include ample quantities of milk, cheese, fruits, and vegetables in your daily menu. If you have these foods, not only will the food conservation program be needed, but your health will be benefited. We must all cooperate in this program of food conservation. There is sufficient food on hand, provided it is used properly and not wasted. Resolve now to do your part.