Here's to veterans from your hit parade starring Frank Sinatra with Axel Stordahl, the hit parade orchestra, Eileen Wilson, and yours truly, Del Charbon. Here's to veterans, a fast-moving quarter hour of entertainment and helpful information brought to you transcribed by the top flight talent of radio in cooperation with the Veterans Administration, dedicated to the citizens who served in our armed forces, now working shoulder to shoulder with their fellow Americans to make a stronger and better America for us all. And here's the star of your hit parade, Frank Sinatra. Thank you, friends. And kicking off our hit parade tribute to all you ex-service guys and gals is the tune everybody's been chirping, A Little Bird Told Me. A little bird told me that you love me. And I believe that you do. This little bird also told me I was falling. Falling for no one but you. There's no use denying I might as well confess. Of all the girls I know, dear, I'm sure I love you best. A little bird told me we'd be happy. And I believe that it's true. A very small bird told me we'll be married. And I believe that it's true. This here bird also told me when we marry. We'll have a pretty cottage not too far. All fenced in like a movie star. A great dame pup, we'll call him Ace. Sleeping there by the fireplace. A goldfish pond and a wishing well. Everything is gonna turn. Everything is gonna turn. I'll swell a little bird. Told me we'd be happy. And I believe that it's true. And now I know that it's true. In June it's bound to come true. I know that it's true. Come June it's bound to come true. I love that little old bird. You know veterans, old Ben Franklin knew the value of thrift. He wrote, a penny saved is a penny earned. And here's how Ben's true talk applies to National Service life insurance. If you veterans want insurance protection and nothing else, GI term insurance is an excellent buy. Hold on to it by all means. But if you fellows want insurance protection plus accumulated savings, a permanent plan of GI insurance will suit you much better. You see, permanent insurance puts some of those dollars of yours to work. They earn interest just as surely as if you deposited them in a savings bank. With every premium you pay on a permanent policy, you make an investment and you increase your savings. They build up the cash loan values of your policy. Later, Del Schabbert will tell you more about the extra value you get from any one of the six permanent plans of GI insurance. But right now, here's Axel Stoddl and the orchestra with a hit parade extra. That all-time, all-timer, just one of those things.η arrival 譜面 ranges conformる Suite入 ¶¶ ¶¶ For all you veterans and VA hospitals throughout the country, here is Miss Eileen Wilson in a song that really sailed into public popularity at full speed ahead on a slow boat to China. ¶¶ ¶¶ I'd love to get you on a slow boat to China ¶¶ All to myself alone ¶¶ Get you and keep you in my arms evermore ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ East is east and west is west and the wrong one I have chose. Let's go where you keep on wearing those frills and flowers and buttons and bows. Rings and things and buttons and bows. Don't bury me in this prairie, take me where the cement grows. Let's move down to some big town where they love a gal by the cut of her clothes. And you'll stand out in buttons and bows. I'll love you in buckskin or skirts that you've homespun. But I love you longer, stronger, where your friends don't carry a gun. My bones denounce, the buck both bounce and the cactus hurts my toes. Let's vamoose where gals keep using those silks and sattles and linen that shows. And you're all mine in buttons and bows. Give me eastern trimming where women are women in high silk hose. In the peek-a-boo clothes, French perfume that rocks the room. And you're all mine in buttons and bows. Well, thank you. And you're climbing car, common road. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from Your Hit Parade, starring Frank Sinatra, with Axel Stordahl and the Hit Parade Orchestra, Eileen Wilson, and yours truly, Del Charbot, who, with our sponsor and the American Federation of Radio Artists, the American Federation of Musicians, the Advertising Council, and this station, have donated their services and time to the Veterans Administration in the public interest. Tune in again for another star-studded Here's to Veterans show, and remember, veterans, if you're planning to use any of your benefits or privileges, don't write to VA headquarters in Washington. Instead, write or visit your nearest Veterans Administration office. And now, a word from your local announcer. The Hone alimentos Excuse me. Here's a story for you, Mother. Here's to the THE Hone medio. Here's to the objectively. Aftergewirming bass contains aESS and has pesticides in common to the End of Bubson but of music, Aunque is outw coding to gaspart, which Trust can send from your authority to bonus. Thank you. Thank you.