Across the street, across the nation, here's a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross. Starring Jack Benny, Mary Livingston, Phil Harris, Rochester, Dennis Day, and yours truly, Don Wilson. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, while Jack was taking inventory in his pantry, a big can of tomato juice fell off the shelf and hit him on the head. Since then, Jack hasn't been himself, and Mary is terribly worried. Now, kids, I talked to the doctor, and he said the reason Jack is spending money is because when the can hit him on the head, it caused a qui-lobum caribri compressant. Qui-lobum caribri compressant? What's that? That's Latin for hand me the jug, Grimley. It's cold outside. Well, there's no use talking to you, Phil. Well, you can talk to me, Mary. I know how serious it can be. My mother once hit my father over the head, and he was unconscious for two days. For two days? What'd she hit him with? Me. With you? She kept hitting him and hitting him. Dennis. Oh, boy, could the Dodgers have used her? Dennis, please. Now, come on, kids. I think it's time we got started for Jack's house. Okay, Mary, let's go. Oh, Rochester. Rochester. Hello, boss. I let you sleep late because I thought it would help your cold. And besides, I... Well, where'd you get that bathroom? That's a beauty. Oh, I bought it yesterday. Of course, it's nothing fancy, but what can you expect for $250? $250. $250 for a bathroom? And, Rochester, send my old one to Fred Allen. And you, uh... Better put a sandwich in each pocket. He's out of work. Well, I think I'll go back to my room and get dressed. I want to do a little shopping before the gang gets here for rehearsal. But, boss, you've been shopping every day this week. Oh, that was just to pick up a few antiques. Antiques? You mean that spin wheel in the living room is only for ornamental purposes? Yes. Why? When you came home with it, I ran to the backyard and planted cotton. Now, Rochester, stop being silly. You have enough work to do around here. I have? Certainly. Now that I think of it, you can have the evening off. Gee, thanks, boss. I think I'll call my girl Susie and take her out. Well, that's a good idea. Rochester, here's $20. Show her a good time. Here, take it. $20? But... No, no, Rochester, I want you to have it. Now, you take that money and go out and have a... Oh, Rochester, you've got tears in your eyes. I can't help it, boss. You haven't been so nice to me since I was in bed with pneumonia. Rochester. You felt so sorry for me, only you made me work half days. What are you talking about? Don't you remember, boss? You used to pick me up at the hospital every day at noon. I don't remember that. Well, I'm going to put my clothes on. See you later. Da-da-dee-da-da, da-dee-da-da-da. Da-da-da-dee-da-da-da. Mmm, mmm. $20. Well, I tell Susie about this. I'm going to call her right now. Hello? Hello? Hello, Susie. This is Rochester. Oh, hello, Rochester. I was hoping you'd call. Well, honey, I got tonight off and we'll really do the town. What? I'll pick you up in a taxi. We'll go to a restaurant for champagne cocktails and a big steak dinner and then we'll go dancing. Rochester, are you all right? Yeah, I'm all right. It ain't me, it's the boss. Mr. Benny? Well, what's the matter with him? I don't know, but it's lovely. Lovely! Rochester, what are you talking about? Well, it's a long story, but I just got $20 from Mr. Benny. Rochester, now you untie that man and give it right back to him. No, no, honey, he gave it to me. He gave it to me! After dinner, I'll take you to Mulholland Drive and we'll watch the sunset. Watch the sunset? Well, Rochester, by the time we have dinner, we won't get to Mulholland Drive until it's pitch dark. Yeah. Now, look, honey. Uh-oh, uh-oh. Here comes Mr. Benny. I'll see you tonight. Okay, Rochester. Goodbye. Goodbye! Well, Rochester, I'm ready to leave. What'll I tell your cats when they come here for rehearsal? Oh, I'll be back before they get here. I'm only going down. I'll answer that. Hello? The vapor showers. Mwah! Make a noise. Mwah! Bell! They bring the flowers. Mwah! Bell! Bell! Now, don't get mad, Mr. Benny. I didn't want to call you up for a job again, but my wife made me do it. Don't be such an apologetic schnook, Melvin. Tell him how important you are. Well, look, there's the mooner. Maybe I'd better not aggrapher. Well, if you won't tell him I will, give me that phone. Hello, Benny? Who are you? I'm Mrs. Blank, Melvin's wife, and my Mel is doing you a favor by wanting to appear on your program. Look, Mrs. Blank... My Melvin is very talented, and he almost got a big part in a very important picture. What picture? Joseph sings again. Now, cut that off! Now, look, Mel. Mel, I've got a part for you on my program. If you'll just stop with those silly imitations. Now, come to rehearsal at my house in an hour. Oh, gee, thanks. I can use the 30 bucks. 30 dollars? Is that all you're getting? Well, Mel, from now on, I'm going to give you 100. Is that all right, Mel? Mel? Mel? I don't know what you said to my husband, but he just swallowed his upper plate. Oh, I'm sorry. Goodbye. Now, Rochester. Rochester, you better have some food for the gag when they come for rehearsal. Yes, sir. I'm going out now, do a little more shopping. I'll be back soon. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a word from Jack Benny. I hope no disaster, not even a small one, ever strikes you. I hope you never need a blood transfusion or first aid of any kind. That you never have a fire or an accident. That you never go through a tornado or an explosion or a flood. But somebody's going to every day of every week of every year. And when trouble strikes them, you'll be there lending a helping hand. You'll be there through your support of your American Red Cross. After all, you don't give to the Red Cross. You give through the Red Cross to a lot of neighbors just like yourself. They may be across the street or down the road or across the nation. But wherever they are, you'll have their heartfelt thanks for the help and comfort you supply. Remember, you help through your Red Cross. Give generously, won't you? Now, let's get on with the rehearsal so we can... Oh, for heaven's sake. What's that can of tomato juice doing on the piano? Uh, Rochester put it there. Yeah, the newsreels will be here any minute. What? Dennis, be quiet. Now, why should a can of tomato juice be here? Oh, Rochester! Rochester! Oh, I'll put it away myself. Excuse me a minute. I can't understand what's the matter with everybody. Don trying to save me money, Mary whispering. Oh, well. Gee, the pantry is full. So there's a little space on this top shelf. If I stand on my tiptoes, I could just... Boss, did you call me? Yes, Rochester. Why did you... Boss, look out! Look out! The cans are falling! Rochester, this is all your fault! Boss, it's out! There's another one! Ooh. Ooh. How do you like that? It happened again. Rochester! Rochester, what's going on in here? Jack, Jack, what happened? Jack, are you hurt? Huh? What? What'd you say, Mary? I asked if you were hurt. No, no, no. I'm all right. Now, come on, Rochester. Let's finish taking this inventory. Oh! Inventory? Jack, you finished that last week. Yeah, we're here for rehearsal. Rehearsal? I don't know what you're all... Rochester, what are you standing around all dressed up for? I got a date. You said I could have the night off. When did I give you the night off? About an hour ago, you even gave me $20 spending money. I? I gave you $20? Sure! Here! I'll show it to you. See? I should have never taken it out of my pocket. Don, Don, he's back to his old self. Yeah. Hit him again. Hit him again. Hire him. Hire him. Dennis, you keep quiet. Now, look, kids. I don't know what this is all about. But, sir, come in. Well, here I am, Mr. Benny. I hope I didn't keep you waiting. Waiting? Waiting? What do you want, mister? I've come for the $49,000 you owe me on the yacht. What? What did you say? I said I've come for the $49,000 you owe me on the yacht. All right, mister, you've had your little joke. Now, what do you want? I'm not joking. You bought a yacht, put a $1,000 deposit on it, and still owe me $49,000. I? I gave you $1,000. Let me see it. I will not. I'm keeping it right in my pocket. Now I know why I'm a butler and he's a yacht salesman. Quiet, Roch. This man is trying some swindle game, saying I bought a yacht. But, Jack, you yourself told us you bought it, and I think you'll get a lot of pleasure out of it. Now, you keep your big, fat mouth out of this. Oh, he's right, Jack. You ought to keep the yacht. Mary. Oh, you even named it after me. Never mind. And get your hands out of that candy. Now, look, mister, if you think you can swindle me... I'm not swindling you. You ordered the yacht. You paid a deposit. And I'll get the rest of that money if I have to sue you. Well, let me tell you something. You're not going to get... Well, here I am, Mr. Penny. I hope I ain't late for rehearsal. Mel Blank, what are you doing here? I don't need you on my show. Oh, but you hired me over the phone. You even raised my salary to $100. I? I gave you... What's going on here, anyway? Do you think I'd pay $100 just to hear you imitate Al Jolson? Nah. Oh, shut up! Now, how about it, Benny? Am I going to get my $49,000, or do I call my lawyer? I don't care how many lawyers you call. You're not going to get any money out of me. But, Jack, it's only money. It's not as though he's taking your life's blood. Let me be the judge of that. Now, mister, you better... You better return my deposit. I must have been out of my mind when I gave it to you. I wouldn't pay $50,000 for any crummy boat. Crummy? I'll have you know that some of the best men in this country own our yachts. Men like Humphrey Bogart, Robert Taylor, and Al Jolson. Now, stop that! And get out! Out, both of you! Get out! Get out! Get out! Get out! Mary. Mary. Mary. What's going on around here, anyway? Is everybody crazy? No, Jack. I don't blame you for being confused. Come on in the other room, and I'll explain it to you. I wish you would. Hello? Hello, Susie. Our date is off tonight. I'm broke. Broke? Well, Rochester, I thought you said you had $20. Have you ever heard that expression? Easy come, easy go? Uh-huh. Well, I've just had a personal demonstration. Goodbye. Your hand held out to your neighbor when he needs help. That's your American Red Cross. Bringing help wherever and whenever it's needed. Across the street, across the nation, across the world. Give generously. Give now. Today's Jack Benny Show, a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross. Starred Jack Benny with Mary Livingston, Phil Harris, Rochester, Dennis Day, and yours truly, Don Wilson. This program was made possible through the cooperation of the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, and the Radio Writers Guild. Across the street, across the nation, here is a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross, written by Ray Singer and Dick Chevrolet, with Elliot Lewis, Walter Tetley, Robert North, Janine Roos, Anne Whitfield, Walter Scharf and his music, yours truly, Bill Foreman, and starring Alice Faye and Phil Harris. Thank you. Recently, we have seen the revival of many fads that were popular 20 years ago, such as the square dance, long skirts, short hair, and now the ukulele. It's been a windfall for Frankie Remley, as he's an expert on the uke, and has been giving lessons to all the youngsters in town. All right, Frankie, okay. Hey, let's run over that hot tune that we were rehearsing. You ready? Yeah. One, two. Collegiate, collegiate, yes we are collegiate, nothing intermediate, no man. Hey, goers! Prousers, baggy, and our clothes look raggy, but we're rough and ready. Yeah! Hey, hot shot! Guiders, hide us, things we never wear, and we have nothing to use for it. Hot flannels, very, very, tell them in a hurry. We never wear the word anywhere, collegiate, rough, rough, rough. Oh, boy, we're swell. You certainly do! Hello, Julius. Miss Faye, what are the Andrews sisters up to? Not up to nothing. I was just singing, and I asked Frankie to join in. Afraid to sing alone, huh? Need somebody to share the blame. I don't need nobody to take the blame for my singing. My voice is my own fault. What are you doing here anyway, kid? What do you want? Just this. I'm in love with this girl, but she don't love me. Emma thinks Harold's got more personality because Harold knows how to play the ukulele. Emma's having a Halloween party at her house tonight, and she invited both of us, but Harold's gonna be Emma's escort instead of me. And I thought if I could learn to play the ukulele by tonight, I could be the life of the party and win Emma away from Harold. You have just heard another exciting chapter in the life of Emma and Harold. I guess nobody here is interested in the problems of young love. I'll talk of my problem with my Uncle Oil. He's stupid, but at least he'll listen. Well, his feelings were hurt. Oh, he's gonna get over it. Don't worry. I don't know. Frankie, come on. Look, I'll tell you what we'll do. We'll call Julius and tell him that we'll meet him at the party tonight and help him promote his romance, huh? Okay. Hey, Alice, we don't have a lead-in for your song, so just sing. I don't feel like singing. I do. Nobody asked you. I don't care. I feel a little Milton Burlish. The old master painter from the faraway hills Painted the violets and the daffodils He put the purple in the twilight haze And did a rainbow for the rainy days Dreamed of the murals on the blue summer skies Painted the devil in my darlin' eyes Captured the dreamer with a thousand thrills The old master painter from the faraway hills Then came his masterpiece and when he was through He smiled down from heaven and he gave me you What a beautiful job on that wonderful day The old master painter from the hills faraway He paints on your hopes on good summer skies He paints for love by him by God in time The old master painter from the faraway hills Painted the violets and the daffodils Painted the violets and the daffodils He put the purple in the twilight haze Pended a rainbow for the rainy days He dreamed of the murals on the blue summer skies Painted that devil in my darlin' eyes Painted the dreamer with a thousand thrills The old master painter from the faraway hills Then came his masterpiece and when he was through He smiled down from heaven and he gave me you What a beautiful job on that wonderful day The old master painter from the hills faraway Faraway, faraway Hiya folks This is Phil Harris With a true story Twenty-five dollars That was all the old gentleman could scrape together He had it clutched in one hand And in the other was the telegram It was from his boy just back from two years At an army base overseas And about to be reassigned And he wanted to see his folks But he was still a thousand miles away And every extra cent he had Was needed to support them The old gentleman carefully put the twenty-five dollars on the desk Saying, please His mother is sick Seeing the boy would help Can you give me enough more money to bring him home? The Red Cross service worker looked at the honest old face And at the war and dollar bills And then went into action Facts were verified Wires were sent And next day from the Red Cross field director at the boys' camp Came this reply Army granting emergency leave And arranging for air transportation home Red Cross providing return transportation And all maintenance en route Please return twenty-five dollars to father Yes, a helping hand when it was needed most And it came from you Through your American Red Cross So let's all give generously To the 1950 fun campaign Thank you Gee, Mr. Harris It's sure nice of you and Mr. Remer To come over to the party and help me Ah, that's all right, kid And look, kid Hey, we got a great plan for you Now, look You take this ukulele And then get Emma Out in the garden You know, where it's Where it's dark And then And then serenade her I told you I can't play the uke You won't have to All you do is fake it I'll be playing my uke Tell me, kid Where's a good place for me to hide in the garden? Behind the hedges Oh, that's great And look Julius, I'm gonna help, too So while Frankie plays, you see I'll serenade her Now, where do you want me to hide While I'm singing? The bottom of the swimming pool Is a good spot That's just the same, Mr. Harris But you don't have a very romantic voice What are you talking about? There are only two great romantic baritones In the country Me and Borgin Monroe Now, look, kid All you have to do is to get your girl Take her out in that garden And we're gonna do the rest Now, come on, Remley Let's hide behind the hedge All right Gee, it's nice of those guys to help me If this thing works Maybe I'll win, Emma And... Julia! Oh, Julia! Here comes Emma now Be quiet, my little heart Hello, Emma How would you like to go for a walk In the garden with me? Oh, I'm sorry, Julia But I can't leave my guests That's why I came to see you I want you to take Poodle for a walk Here's the leash But, Emma, I wanted to take you out for a walk Maybe later Thank you, Julia Everything happens to me Instead of Emma, I get to walk with an Irish setter Quiet, Poodle Shut up! Come on, I'll walk you Why couldn't you be Emma? Then I can tell you what I think of her I tell you, you're the most wonderful girl I'll ever see in all my life How much longer do you think we'll have to wait, Curly? We've got an awful chilly standing out here You see any sign of Julius and his girl yet? No It's too dark out here to see anything But I know that they... Hey, wait a minute Wait a minute I hear something Somebody's coming Somebody, Emma I hope to make your mind Yeah, that's it Yeah I'm tired of walking I'm gonna sit down You sit down, too I said sit down, you funny-looking mutt Hey, Curly Did you hear what you said to Emma? Yeah Must be a new teenage term of endearment Gee, what a night I could get so romantic But with that moon and those stars, yeah And I gotta be out here with you Will you please sit still? And stop trying to drag me over to that tree She's trying to... Maybe there's a hammock out there Curly, let's start serenading Emma Oh, shh No, no Let's listen a little more This kid's technique fascinates me What has this hammer got that I haven't got? I wish you could tell me But no, all you do is sit there and scratch yourself When was the last time you had a bath? These kids get pretty personal Well, that's that modern youth Everything frank and above board Why do you keep scratching? Oh, I see what's wrong You got a tick in the hairy part of your face Emma don't sound very entrancing Pretty sloppy hostess At least she could do a shave There you are, girl Now that I removed the ticks You feel better, huh? Oh, now you want to play Okay, sit up on your hind legs And I'll scratch your stomach Curly, now is the time Ain't she sweet? See her walking down the street Oh, I ask you very confidentially Wait a minute, wait a minute What are you guys doing? Keep scratching, kid We're with you Don't serenade now Emma ain't with me Then who are you making love to? I ain't making love to nobody This is her dog Who thought the dog was Emma? You thought... That's rich Emma's a dog What did you say, Julia? I said Emma's a dog They thought the dog was... Emma Well, I invite you to my home And you insult me Harold was right When he called you a ruffian But Emma Calling me a dog But Emma, how do we know That you weren't a dog? Julius, I never want to see you again Get out and take your two little Hoodlum friends with you Goodbye, Mr. Abruzio But Emma Emma Miss Hugginschlager Your hand held out to your neighbor When he needs help That's your American Red Cross Bringing help wherever And whenever it's needed Across the street Across the nation Across the world Give generously Give now Today's Phil Harris show A transcribed salute To our American Red Cross Starred Phil Harris And Alice Fay With Elliot Lewis Walter Tetley Robert North Janine Roos Ann Whitfield Walter Scharf And his music And yours truly Bill Foreman This program was made possible Through the cooperation Of the American Federation Of Musicians The American Federation Of Radio Artists And the Radio Writers Guild I'm a friend of mine From a Val Scof To Mary's The American好像
