This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beacon. President Truman has proclaimed December 10th as Human Rights Day and called upon us to observe by teaching and education, to promote respect for these rights and freedoms, and by progressive measures national and international to secure their universal and effective recognition and observance. And that's what we want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. It is a very great honor to interview Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who is chairman of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, and more responsible than anyone else for the tremendous strides which the United Nations has made in that field in the last four years. Our association is particularly proud that some of its officers participated in a dramatic event at San Francisco, which resulted in the mandatory provision in the charter for a commission on human rights. At one moment at San Francisco, we consultants learned that a provision had been deleted from the latest draft of the charter. Some of us asked for a meeting with the members of the American delegation, and persuaded them to reinsert in the charter a provision for a commission on human rights. And now it is our privilege to hear from Mrs. Roosevelt, incidentally a member of the board of the American Association for the United Nations, an account of the great progress that has been made. Ms. Roosevelt, why did President Truman proclaim December 10th to be Human Rights Day? For a very simple reason, Mr. Ackerberger, it was on December 10th, just a year ago in Paris, that the General Assembly of the United Nations, by a vote of 48 nations, no nations against, and 10, 2 abstains and 8 abstains, accepted the declaration. And it is considered important enough for the President to have issued a proclamation on this ambition. I should think so. I'd like to ask another question, Ms. Roosevelt. I wonder if you would review for us some of the steps leading to the adoption of the Declaration by the Assembly, that is, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Well, there are words in the Charter which indicate the importance of human rights, individual human rights, and freedoms, human freedoms. And one of the very first things that the Economic and Social Council did after the organization of the United Nations in London, 1946, was to appoint a nuclear commission to decide how we would set up a permanent human rights commission. I happened to be chosen on that first nuclear commission, and we decided on the way the permanent commission should be set up, and what its first piece of work should be. That was decided as the writing of a charter of human rights, a universal charter for the whole world. Many nations had had charters before, but there had never been an attempt to write a universal one. And after that we held meetings once or twice a year, and out of those meetings came some work on a covenant, but the final writing of the Declaration. And as it was ready last autumn, that first part of the bill, the bill of being in two parts, we decided to present it last autumn to the General Assembly, and those are the steps through which the work is done so far. Well, you know, Ms. Roosevelt, if anyone had told me at San Francisco that four years after the adoption of the charter there would actually be a Declaration of Human Rights, and you would be far on the road to a covenant of human rights, I simply couldn't believe it was possible. And I think the greatest credit is yours. I will go to a third question, if you permit me. In preparing a document that would obtain the support of the General Assembly, fifty-some nations, there must have been many points of view to reconcile. I think we'd like to have you describe some of the difficulties involved which resulted from distant customs and legal systems in the drafting of the Declaration. Well, there are, of course, great difficulties in writing any international document. One of the first is the difficulty of expressing in five different official languages the exact same thought, because the people who speak those languages have to accept the wording as having the same meaning that the other nations interpret in their languages, to means. And that's very much more difficult than you would think. Then, of course, I think one of the great difficulties is the different religions. We, for instance, worked very hard, thought we'd consulted all the major religions in the article on freedom of thought and religion. And we found that we had forgotten the Mohammedan religion, which was rather a bad thing to leave out. And when it came to the meeting in Paris, the Mohammedans said that the words we had put in, that you had the right to change your religion or belief, could not be accepted by people who believed in the Koran. Now, there was a division. And some of the Mohammedan states felt that that was a wrong interpretation. But others clung to that interpretation to the very end, and could not accept the whole declaration because of that. So religion is, as it so often is, one of the difficulties of understanding. And legal systems. Oh, my, what we have suffered from the fact that some of us live under the Napoleonic Code and understand it perfectly, and others live under English common law and many, many things between the two. I think I could give you one good illustration. Professor Cassin of the French Supreme Court, or what is equivalent to ours, wanted an article which he finally gave up in the Declaration, but which he still wants in the Covenant, which in French would say, Personne ne doit être d'être revue de sa personnalité juridique. And I foolishly translated it, no one shall be deprived of their juridical personality. And from the lawyers, all of them in the English group, I got violent romance pieces. There was no such expression in English common law. And our own lawyers said there is none in American law. Until finally, after days of discussion, one of our young men from the Department of Justice said, Yes, you can accept that phrase, juridical personality. It was once used in American law by Justice Paley in the Dred Scott case, when he said a slave has no juridical personality. So temporarily we accepted it under protest, because the British could think of nothing better. But that shows you some of the difficulties in the legal way. Those are very dramatic stories. I wish we had time for you to give us a great many more. I'd like to, since it is true that the Declaration is not to be ratified by national legislatures, and therefore will not have binding effect to the sense that a treaty would have, where in does the force of the Declaration lie? I think it lies in public opinion. I think it lies in the knowledge of people and the desire of people to see such a Declaration accepted as a standard of human rights and freedoms, and as a document that has voiced the aspirations of people the world over. We can already see that the Declaration, which has no legal binding value, has had an effect, because some of the constitutions written since it was accepted have included in them certain things that are in the Declaration, and a number of our own decisions handed down in our courts refer to the Declaration. So that while it has no legal binding value, I think it can have enormous moral and real power if the people understand it and back it. And if the moral effect is great enough, it eventually will have a legal effect. I think it will. I know that your commission is now at work preparing the second part of what was originally called the International Bill of Rights, and the declaration that you've described as the first. I think you've referred to the second document as the covenant of human rights. Would you describe the difference between the covenant and the declaration as far as content is concerned? Well, naturally the covenant is legally binding because it's drafted in the form of a treaty, and it will not only have to be accepted by nations through their representatives in the General Assembly, but it will then have to be ratified as a treaty would be ratified, and then becomes an international obligation. And that, of course, will take longer. And I think it will mean that naturally the covenant will not cover as many subjects as the declaration, for the very super reason that we want to get it ratified. It's a good thing to have a treaty ratified, because if it isn't ratified, it's completely dead. And so, for that reason, we hope to write a document which can be ratified widely by a great many nations. And that's the real difference. Well, I've saved a few minutes for the last question, which I am most anxious to have you discuss. What do you believe is the responsibility of individuals and private organizations in this great crusade to promote both the Declaration and the Covenant? May I ask what specific recommendations you would have for the members of our association? Well, I think my recommendations for the members of our association would be exactly the same as my recommendations for private organizations and individuals. It seems to me that this is really a crusade. It seems to me that it has to be won by people who believe in their hearts in human rights and freedoms, and who carry that out in their communities, in their family life, in everything that they do, and who have the courage to stand up for their convictions and beliefs. It won't always be easy. It will be very difficult. And for that reason, it seems to me that it requires the acceptance by the individual of his or her responsibility, and the sense that this can't be won by government. Government here will follow what the people are willing to do, because it has to come from the people to their representatives, that feeling that they really believe that the individual must be respected, and that all human beings have that right, that it isn't confined to any one race or one queen, that it belongs to all human beings. And for that reason, that everybody has the need to work on this thing, and to see that it becomes a part of our daily lives, and because it is a part of our daily lives, becomes the atmosphere in which the people of our country live. And since we are the leaders today of the democracies, it will become the philosophy of the democracies, and it will, I hope, spread throughout the world, and mean that human rights and freedoms are increasingly recognized and accepted. I can think of nothing else which a Christian nation would want to see spread more audibly throughout the world. And for that reason, I hope this day is celebrated always. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt. This has been a transcribed program in NBC's University of the Air series, The UN Is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in United Nations affairs. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN Is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN Is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.