We are about to inaugurate at this time at 83-20 Queens Boulevard, a unique institution of its kind, the Italian Charities and Welfare Building here, which will serve this community of Elmhurst in the unique fact that a national group is undertaking the good and welfare of its community and working out all the various ramifications of good citizenship and inspiration through these activities. There is a very interesting program being inaugurated for this day. The weatherman has been most cooperative in sending us possibly one of the most beautiful days we have had so far. Not a cloud in the sky, and we hope that speaks well for the Italian Welfare Center here at Queens Boulevard. Now under the auspices of the Boy Scouts, we have the privilege of the raising of the flag. And our own flag of the United States of America is now being raised as the first feature of this ceremony here at Queens Boulevard. Boy Scouts are now in preparation of raising the flag, and in just a few moments, with a sky that is really blue, as blue and as beautiful as we'd find along the Mediterranean, the stars and stripes of America will flash out against this clear blue sky. And now the flag is being raised. By the time of the funded standing standing Now the presentation of the colors by the veterans of foreign wars. I might add that the fire department of our own city, the Glee Club and the band, which build up the civic quality of these presentations in public, versed as they are in the prodigal of each ceremony, they bring their musical talents as an extracurricular activity of their duty to the city of New York. And we are familiar with the splendid music of the fire department band under the leadership of the deputy chief and the Glee Club under the leadership of Paul Griffard. Remove your hats please. On behalf of the veterans of foreign wars we welcome everybody here. At this time salute the colors. Two. There you are. And now we have the Star Spangled Banner which will be sung by Miss Penny Carroll accompanied by the fire department band, honorary Chief Bregel conducting. The Star Spangled Banner The Star Spangled Banner Say can you see by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hail at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous night. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, and the rockets breathed clear, our bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave. Thank you, Miss Penny. And now the invocation by the Reverend Robert Testagrosa. Almighty and everlasting God of heaven and of earth, behold us here present this morning, gathered together in fulfillment of thy command to foster brotherly love and interest. We have come to ask thy divine assistance and blessing on this work of charity and of welfare. We implore thy help and guidance in the execution of thy command of charity, and with thy benign and fatherly hand we will be guided rightly. Let therefore thy blessing descend abundantly on those who are instruments of welfare and charity, and may this edifice be as a bright and shining beacon to those who need and seek guidance, that those whose privilege it is to mete out this help be spurred with an all-embracing fraternal consideration, and may the expansiveness of their hearts be a continual manifestation of that brotherly affection which thou and thy divine Son, Jesus Christ, has given so shining an example. Amen. At this time I wish to also make known the telegram which I received this morning from Vatican City, from the Holy Father on the dedication of this edifice. It reads as follows. The Holy Father, in appreciation of filial homage to the promoters of the Italian charities and welfare center, willingly sends to the organizers, the officers, and the members his paternal apostolic blessing on the occasion of the inauguration of their new edifice. Signed by Monsignor Martini, the substitute secretary of the Papal State. And now the very auspicious moment has come for the laying of the cornerstone of this building by the group of distinguished citizens who are participating in this Italian charities and welfare building inauguration here at 83-20 Queens Boulevard in the Elmhurst section of Queens. The cornerstone laying, of course, is a little bit remote from the microphones here that are up on the stand, right beneath the stars and stripes which are flying so beautifully in the clear blue sky this morning. We have received so many inspirations from the ancient land of Italy in art and music, in law, in every way that life can be cultivated into a finer and better thing. And this expression here at the Queens Boulevard inaugural ceremonies is in line with the inspirations of the Italian people. The Italian charities and welfare building here is a splendid edifice and will be an ornament to the borough of Queens and the Elmhurst section. About the most permanent thing about New York City is change. Change for the better. And when these communities formed in what were formerly, many of them, the old Dutch colonies that were granted by the various sovereignities in the older countries at the time of the colonial settlements, well, we have seen them develop from forests, primeval forests, into farmlands, and then eventually because of their proximity to the original part that we call New York City, Manhattan Island, and the tremendous development there. Why we have seen these boroughs build up to such an extent because of the availability to employment, facility for transportation, and all the other factors that it becomes necessary to organize the good and welfare of all those who are part of these communities as they develop from the ancient boroughs. This building here today will carry out in its own unique way the intentions of charity and welfare for those who need guidance in these matters. The City of New York itself has one of the greatest and the finest programs of its kind anywhere in the world, inaugurating first in its health divisions, its health department, its health centers, and this is a continuation in the immediate community by its proud citizens of the same type of work. It's very important that we realize the values of our Wonder City and appreciate its values by doing everything possible to take advantage of these advantages in themselves that will do so much to contribute to our good citizenship. And certainly the committee in all concerned with the inauguration of this splendid activity here in the Elmhurst section are to be credited indeed for a fine brand of citizenship that brings about developments of this kind. We have a very interesting ceremony for you, and you'll hear from Mr. Iorici in a few moments, who will present the regular chairman. In the meantime, the cornerstone laying is taking place, and everybody is deeply interested in this ceremony. The Boy Scouts have turned out, the veterans of foreign wars, a splendid delegation of citizens, and, of course, this wonderful, beautiful day in October will let us hope that it means fair sailing in clear skies for this splendid activity, rather, in its complete lifetime of activity here in the Elmhurst section of the Borough of Queens. For those who may have tuned in late, may we remind you that we are laying the cornerstone and dedicating this Italian Charities and Welfare building here at 83-20 Queens Boulevard. And an indication of its importance is the constant swirl of traffic from New York and to New York, and the various other arterial highways for which Long Island is noted. This constant flow of traffic gives it some idea of the importance of the borough itself and the constant activity that is one of the scenes and the qualities of the borough. Just a few moments now, our guests will be back on the stand, and we'll have the speaking program, and the speakers will bring out in detail the various intentions of this splendid organization here, the Italian Charities and Welfare Building. Morning, Mr. Mayor. Acting Mayor Sharkey has taken his place now on the stand, and they're coming up from the laying of the cornerstone, and we'll soon have a very interesting speaking ceremony for you. I don't know how many of these men have worked at the trade of Mason, but they're all doing pretty good down there with the mortar and getting this cornerstone solidly and firmly laid. Another contribution from the Italian citizens of the Elmhurst Queens. And may we say again that no nation in the world has contributed more to the culture and beauty of life than the ancient land of Italy. This is not a compliment, and it certainly is not flattery. Anyone who knows anything about the inspirations of Italian art, Italian music, law, sculptor, every form that the improvement of life may take on can really trace some of its best and earliest inspirations to Italy. Well, unless I can use this microphone, I don't know. How's it coming up? I have a great time. Well, Anthony, well, I'm going to get you better from this side? I don't know. We'll cut it from any side. Now in just a moment, we'll have the pleasure of presenting surrogate Anthony Savarese of Queens, who will say a few words and undertake the cutting of the ribbon, which indicates that this building will soon be in service. Mr. Chairman, friends and neighbors, the laying of the cornerstone marks the completion of our contribution in an architectural sense to the county of Queens. We're about to cut the ribbon, which will be symbolical of opening the doors to all our friends and neighbors, and more especially to those organizations who have the same like purpose in connection with the work that they do in this great county of ours. The Boy Scouts was the first organization a week ago to use its facilities, and we extend those courtesies and those same privileges to such other organizations. It's been a grand day. It's a grand ceremony. And we hope that many of you will come in and look at our new home. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Savarese, and you have every reason to be proud of the fact that you've just cut the ribbon that will put this building in service to the people of Queens. And now one of our fine musical organizations, the Fire Department Glee Club, under the direction of Paul Griffard, will now sing God Bless America. And this is one occasion when we can realize that he has. I thought maybe they were going to use their piano, but we're going to have the honor of the band accompanying the God Bless America. Honorary Chief George Briegel conducting that splendid organization, the Fire Department Band. We're getting organized here now, and in just a moment you'll hear the music. We thought it'd be better to use the band, and we're reorganizing, resetting the stage, we might say, so that you'll have a real glorious invocation for God's blessing of America. God bless America, land that I love. Stand beside her, stand beside her, and guide her, to the night with a light from above. From the mountains, to the prairies, to the ocean, I will fall. God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home sweet home. God bless America, my home sweet home sweet home sweet home. And now we have the distinct honor of presenting our first speaker who will introduce the Chairman, Mr. Joseph V. Aorici. Distinguished guests and friends, as chairman of the building committee to whom was assigned the privilege and responsibility of erecting this building, may I extend my sincere thanks to our many friends who by their generous contributions made this possible. To the best of my knowledge, this is the first monument of its kind dedicated to the cause of charity and welfare to be erected by any group of our racial background anywhere in these great United States. If our accomplishment serves as an inspiration and a model to similar groups and organizations, then we will more fully have achieved our purpose. It is my proud privilege to introduce to you as chairman of these memorable dedication services a distinguished citizen who in spite of the pressure and responsibilities of his official duties as collector of the Internal Revenue Department for the First District of New York and who notwithstanding his deep interest in many Brooklyn and New York charities can still unselfishly find time to stretch a willing hand into Queens County and help us in bringing to a realization our dream of 15 years. May I present to you the chairman of today's ceremonies, the Honorable Joseph P. Marcel. Congratulations. Thank you, Joey Arricci, Vice President of the Italian Welfare Center, whose efforts toward the completion of this building have helped make it possible. We have received messages from friends abroad who have followed closely the progress of our work, and I should like to read them to you. The first one, remembering the happy days which I recently spent with the Italians in America, I am privileged to send on the occasion of the inauguration of the Italian Charities and Welfare Center of Queens New Building, my congratulations and best wishes for this charitable organization, whose activities I am sure will contribute more and more assistance to the Italian community in America, Alcidi di Gasparri. The next message, the material and spiritual good achieved by Italian Charities and Welfare Center of Queens, both in us and in Italy, is inspiration to all who come into contact with its activities. The opening of its new home is a happy augury for the continued growth of this work, and I send my best wishes for its future, James Clement Dunn, American Ambassador. Vatican City, Joseph P. Marcel, occasion, Italian dedication, Italian Charities and Welfare Center of Queens, please convey my heartiest congratulations to the Honorable Anthony Savarese, Chairman of Board of Directors, Bruno LaPia, President, the Honorable Nicholas Petty, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and to all officers the magnificent achievement in the field of social welfare inspired by highest sentiments of brotherhood and solidarity. Beg God blessings on promoters and all donors. This center will be an inspiration to the charitable minded men and women everywhere. My congratulations to you as chairman of the dedication ceremony. You are always associated with every noble effort to aid our fellow men in the betterment of social conditions. The warmest regards, Monsignor John Patrick Carroll Abbey. I have a telegram from our mayor. He says, sorry unable to attend, please convey greetings and congratulations on the fine community effort and best wishes for your continued progress in your new home, Vincent Impelletieri. My desire to be present at the dedication ceremonies of the new building of the Italian Charities and Welfare Center of Queens is as deep as my regret at my impossibility to attend. But I want to express as Italy's representative in this country my heartfelt gratitude to all workers and contributors who have made this structure possible thus extending the assistance and relief so nobly done in favor of the needy. May this beautiful building ever serve as a stronghold of hope and radiate happiness both for the destitute for those who helped them in the name of human solidarity, Trachiani. And now, hope I stop dropping these things. You ain't kidding. Now I'd like to introduce our president for a minute's address, Bruno LaPia. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, members and friends of the Italian Charities. It was really with a genuine pleasure and a deep feeling of satisfaction that I cut that ribbon that opens the door of our beautiful building to all our friends. To us that for many years hoped and dreamed for this day, the satisfaction goes beyond the symbolic gesture of this day. And while we are very proud that today we dedicate this structure to charity, we nevertheless fully realize that this is the beginning of our goal. Your presence here today gives us more courage to continue with more fervor the work that we started 15 years ago. I want to thank you for taking time to come here today to celebrate with us this wonderful event. And I want to extend to you all a very cordial invitation to visit our building today and any other day that pleases you. Thank you. A stalwart supporter and kind friend is with us today. He is the acting borough president of Queens who has proclaimed these past seven days as Italian Center Week. Joseph V. Maffera. Mr. Chairman, Acting Mayor Sharkey, members of the clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, but before I start my talk, I want to correct the collector that I am not the acting borough president of the county of Queens. I am your borough president. Mr. Chairman, there have been few occasions since I have been your borough works commissioner and your borough president that has given me as much pleasure as this dedication ceremony of the Italian Center Building of Queens. Outside of public and parochial schools, it isn't often that we have the opportunity of celebrating the opening of a social and culture center for the people. This is such a center, it will serve young and old. It will provide worthwhile educational and recreational facilities. It will be a home for aid to the needy and the underprivileged. It will be a sort of inspiration for active citizenship and patriotism. It will be the means of bringing to this community the vast culture, heritage of the Italian people. Queens is fortunate that there are citizens in its midst who are devoted to the welfare of their fellow men and who are willing to give their time, energy, and substance to make this beautiful building possible. Queens is fortunate that it has its leaders like Judge Sabarese, Chairman of your distinguished Board of Directors. Without his inspiring guidance, this happy event could not have come about. May I congratulate Judge Sabarese, the officers, the members of the Italian Center, and the people of Queens on providing these wonderful facilities for the benefit of us all. Thank you. All right, thank you, Mr. Borough President. As you know, Mayor Impeletere wanted to be here today. He is, however, still on the high seas. He has asked the very able, acting mayor, Joseph P. Scharke to represent him here today. Mr. Scharke. Thank you, Mr. Marcel. Reverend Fathers, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. Borough President. It's a real pleasure to be here at this dedication of your beautiful welfare center today. It marks another milestone of achievement for all Italians or Americans of Italian origin. It's a monument to the splendid wake of your group. It's a monument to your unselfishness and your understanding. It's a tribute to your magnificent humanitarianism. It comes as no surprise to me that the civic-minded Italian Americans who made this modern center possible have again made a lasting contribution to the borough of Queens and the city of New York. You have been performing a great task for many years, and I know you have constructive plans for the future. Italian Americans have been a guiding force in our public affairs for decades. Their contributions to posterity are well known. They have given great men to the world. Your tremendous progress has not come without a fight. Through the years, you have battled against great odds. You have won that battle because you were a Crip, spiritually and culturally, to do what you have done. The mayor Impoliteri is at this moment returning from abroad where he visited Italy to further the understanding between our peoples. And the day is near when Italy will become a member of the great family of nations in the United Nations. the city. Already here in this city, we are united in understanding and in purpose. the dedication of this center in your name to all races, to all creeds, is a proud dedication. I know that this wonderful group will not rest on its laurels, but will continue its great work. From the bottom of my heart, I wish you the greatest success in the wake that will lead you to further dedications. May God bless this building and all those who will administer it. Thank you. Thank you, Joe Sharkey. And I know that we'll have to excuse him. He has a very, very busy program today. Italy has a very energetic, efficient representative in the New York area, who has endeared himself to all who know him. It is my great pleasure to introduce the Italian Consul General, Dr. Aldo Mazio. Just a very few words, ladies and gentlemen, in my hesitant English. Thank you for having invited me to witness the dedication of this new building, which is a monument, as has been said, to the spirit of enterprise of the Americans of Italian origin, but which is also a manifestation of the social consciousness of the Americans of Italian descent. I know that the Americans of Italian descent living in Queens are an elite, an aristocracy, if I may use this word, in your great democracy. Certainly, you are the representatives of a full-fledged generation of Italian Americans, who have risen to achievement and prestige. But generally speaking, Italians are utterly individualistic, and the hoi polloi have a habit of withdrawing into their shelves, into their ivory towers. You and the country have come forth in an all-out effort to build up an organization which is dedicated to the welfare of your community. To build up a community center as beautiful as a club, where people can congregate and learn the art of living together, a fine and difficult art upon which our individual and collective happiness is based. But I did not come here to philosophize or to desert on sociology. I came here principally to express the gratitude of the Italian people for all you have done in the difficult post-war years to help them in their spiritual and material rehabilitation. I wish to extend to every one of you, in my official capacity as Consul General of Italy, the appreciation of the Italian government for your solidarity in the difficult moment of the national existence, which have been passed through by us. We Italians are grateful for your help, which have contributed in healing scars, both spiritual and material. But we are even more grateful for the lesson you have taught us. We have learned from you, from your example, to believe in the unity of mankind. Thank you for this practical lesson of democracy. When democracy is the best meaning of the word, as it is understood in this country. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Mazio. From our State Department in Washington, we are privileged to have with us today, Mr. Homer Byington, who with his charming wife, arrived this morning to participate in our dedication ceremonies. Mr. Byington has spent years in Italy as director of the Western European Division of the United States State Department. He understands Italy's problems and our people. The Italian Welfare Center of Queens, its members, its officers, are kin to the Italian people he knows so well. It is my pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to present Mr. Homer Byington. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I have come from the Department of State in Washington to join with you in dedicating this new building created by and devoted to the work of the Italian charities and welfare center of the work of the Italian charities and welfare center of Queens. This sturdy building represents tangible evidence of the community spirit of thousands of local citizens. Mr. I feel certain that I express the sentiments of everyone when I extend my sincere congratulations to all the members of the Center who have supported the project, and particularly to the chairman of the board, Surrogate Savarese, the president of the Center, Mr. Lupia, and to the chairman of the dedication committee, Mr. Marcel. Mr. Marcel. All of whom have worked so hard to ensure its success. Mr. Marcel. Mr. Marcel. Mr. Marcel. Mr. Marcel. Robertiu, our chairman has Beaver's and� Será, the author has given the tractours to 그럼 through that and correctness in time . Mr. matthew, geometVideo, congress and 레cyclopedia rights, patrons and pilots. Harrison. Mr.最終 덮, warming letters of the labor of the border lipset after the military soll in history, it will take care of theoses and OCC, directorate of our country, but the members of this center have also supported, with self-sacrifice and generosity, American economic assistance to Italy. In Italy's time of greatest need, those days of chaos and hunger that followed a tragic war, you, on your own initiative, without waiting for government action, sent to Italy gifts of food, clothing, and medicine. I myself have seen at that time, on the dusty Appian Way, the trucks that bore your gifts to a courageous, hard-working people, desperately striving to rebuild their homes and plant new crops in the shell-torn fields. You should be very proud of the help which you have given to the new Italy that is today emerging in the free world. Not only has Italy, with American aid, restored the damages of the war, stopped inflation, and renewed industrial production, but also, under a democratic government, internal order has been re-established, and above all, the right of the individual to speak, think, and act in liberty. The measure of Italy's great achievements in rebuilding her economy on democratic foundations was clearly revealed during the recent visit to the United States of Prime Minister De Gasperi. The United Kingdom, France, and the United States declared, in effect, that the spirit of the peace treaty with Italy, and its stigma of inequality, are most unfair to the new democratic Italy. Our joint action is intended to increase the opportunities in Italy to expand production and employment in behalf of the defense of the free world. The response to the joint declaration is the best proof of its justice. Already seven nations, Mexico, Brazil, the Republic of China, Canada, the Union of South Africa, Greece, and Belgium, have publicly endorsed it. Only the Soviet Union opposed the declaration, and refused to recognize all that Italy has accomplished since the war. It has also sought to isolate Italy's defense from that of the free world as one condition to revision. De facto revision of the treaty will, nevertheless, proceed, despite all obstacles. The people-to-people friendship and assistance, which your organization and others like it, develop with other nations, can help create a permanent pattern of common action, interests, and ideals, in support of the principles of the United Nations. With such international cooperation and understanding, it will be easier for governments to promote social progress and to maintain peace. Thank you very much, Mr. Byrington. It's now my privilege to introduce the Boy Scout Fife and Drum Corps for a marching song. For the three years, first century landscaping shops and jsem gesturing the whole systems. Progressive cinematic Additional changes to hold micro-mann generation. To be done, point two dozen vital coins. The Gottesman politician's семьи are originally passed away with many Cruise legislation. It's now an impossible São myself at a時間kever. Not an impossible task force than the boats, nor a child has too high forcambe in us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Senator Conrad. I hope if I've missed any that you'll forgive me for it, but my friends, today we are here to dedicate a structure that will bring help to many men, women, and children in need. The idea was conceived by Judge Savarese, and to him and to the Lupias, the Scalamandres, the Ferragusas, the Maffares, for their capable and tireless leadership, we owe much thanks. With this new home, it is up to each and every one of you to join in the expansion of the program so ably begun. Your contributions are necessary. And that is how badly help is needed. Resuming a normal life and once again, ready and able to contribute to the growth of that community, which many times enlarged is the strength of our nation. Thank you very, very much. And now before we bring you the benediction of this auspicious ceremony here at 83-20 Queens Boulevard in the Elmhurst section of Queens, where this Italian charity and welfare building has been dedicated this morning to the good and welfare, carrying out the traditions and the advance of our great city, New York. We're going to hear a solo from the fire department, Glee Club, with John Kokerman. Well, we hear a lot about Mario Luntz and other singers, but the city departments always find those who can match anybody. And John Kokerman is going to sing for you now, and then the benediction by the very Reverend William C. Bennett. We hear a lot about Mario Luntz. Hey. And you can hear a lot. Thank you. Leave my love for no one else can end this yearning, this need that you and you alone create. Just fill my arms the way you filled my dreams, the dreams that you inspire with every sweet desire. Be my love and with your kisses set me burning. One kiss is all I need to seal my fate. And hand in hand we'll find love's promised land. There'll be no one but you for me, eternally. If you will be my love. Be my love for no one else can end this yearning, this need that you and you alone create. Just fill my arms the way you filled my dreams. The trees are healed inside with every sweet desire. Be my love and with your kisses set me burning. One kiss is all I need to seal my fate. And hand in hand we'll find love's promised land. There'll be no one but you only. It will end the day. If you will be my love. Thank you very much, Fireman Cocherman and the chorus forming the membership of the Fire Department Glee Club. As we invoked divine guidance in the beginning of this program, we now ask God's blessing. The Reverend William C. Bennett will give the benediction. Now may the Lord bless thee and keep thee. May the Lord make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. May the Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace. Amen. And so we conclude this unique ceremony here at 83-20 Queens Boulevard. Unique because we have a particular racial group devoting its time to the good and welfare of all races, all religions, all creeds, here in the Elmhurst section of Queens. And now we're going to present Mr. Lupia, who's going to invite everyone to visit the building, and then we'll conclude in just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, you're all invited to see our building. Please do. Thank you, Mr. Lupia, and good luck to your splendid work here in the borough of Queens. Mr. Lupia and the committee thank the Fire Department Band, Honorary Chief George Briegel conducting, and the Fire Department Glee Club with Captain Paul Griffard leading that splendid organization as well. We want to take this occasion to thank the musical organizations of the city departments that always bring such a splendid quality to these public functions. And now good luck to the Italian Welfare and Charities building here at 83-20 Queens Boulevard in the Elmhurst section of Queens. Thank you from the great, sunny blue skies of the borough of Queens. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Yeah, the producer. Yeaherschology. Yeah.