I'd like to say just a few words myself. First of all, I'd like to thank the delegates who've spoken here for what they've said about my own work and the work of the Secretary General and his staff, and especially the work of those officials around the building whose work is unnoticed, those who are translating, those who are helping us in a thousand ways and without whom we couldn't do the work at all. It's a great honour to be President of this World Assembly, and I'd like to thank the delegates, all the delegations for what they've done in that regard at this first portion of our work for this session. Now, I would say this, it's too early to pass final judgment upon the record of any session. Some people will criticise the General Assembly because it hasn't done enough, hasn't tackled enough subjects, but of course they would hardly be heard on this occasion because we've had the far the heaviest agenda in United Nations history, a greater number of meetings, and the work that's been tackled has been finished, so far as the Assembly can finish it. This Assembly is not a legislative or executive body. It is the forum where all the nations of the world come together, exchange their views, and make their recommendations. And I say any criticism against the work, actual labour of the Assembly is absolutely unjustified. But of course, gentlemen, there's another form of criticism, and it's a criticism that may turn out to be right or wrong, but it is the criticism that some of our decisions are wrong decisions. Now, that's a different form of criticism. Mr. Vyshynski has been a great fighter for the views he maintains on the political side of this Assembly. No one struggles more tenaciously, even more ferociously for the views he holds. He's been a great fighter, and we respect his great qualities. But his work has lain mainly on the political side. While the political work is going on in political committee number one, with all the press present and all the troubles reported and exaggerated catching the headlines, work is going on all the time in other committees, in the social committee, in the economic committee, in the trusteeship committee, in the legal committee. And great achievements have been made on that side of our activities, which tend to escape notice. I'm sure that will be taken into consideration. In my view, in my view, taking a provisional judgment, it's impossible to expect the General Assembly of the United Nations to settle all the disputes between the great powers, which they've taken two and a half years to deal with and have not yet settled. And as bits of those disputes come into the General Assembly, you've got to pass judgment from that point of view, to see whether this is really a great power dispute or something that would come here in any event. I would say this, that in the political field, something has been done in the process of conciliation and reconciliation. And I think it's been very important, and I didn't give the details, because those of you on the political side know that. And second, there have been great achievements in the social and economic fields. The Delegate of France has referred to the Declaration of Human Rights, which, when it came to the vote here, was no one voted against. And then we've passed the Convention to outlaw the detestable crime in which people agree, as Hitler did, to exterminate races. Many other achievements could be pointed to. I think they're considerable. The United Nations has enemies from a number of directions, directions which are in themselves contradictory. There are those who don't like the United Nations, because the United Nations is the greatest force in the world today for peace. And indeed, if the great powers are at odds, it is practically the only organ in the world, as Mr. Sherman said, which stands for international peace as its objective. And we're all agreed here on that. But outside, people criticise the United Nations. It has enemies in other directions, who think that perhaps the debates are too long and too acrimonious. They never think, gentlemen, of the debates in their own countries, in their own national parliaments. After a fierce debate in your national parliament, whether it's in London or whether it's in Washington or whether it's in Paris or wherever it might be, you don't leave your national parliament and say, well, it's a dreadful thing's happened up there. They're calling each other names. They're attacking each other. When one man says one thing, they don't agree with him. They take the opposite view. That is of the very essence of a world assembly. You don't in your national area say, everything is breaking down. Look at those people. They're quarrelling with each other. And therefore, this is a world assembly where different views must be presented publicly. That is the assembly. And we're doing that. And then you come to the point as to the majority. Well, all I would say about that is that the majority of the assembly may make an error. It may come to a decision which Vince will show was a wrong decision or an erroneous decision. Only time can tell. But you've got to remember the famous proverb, I think it comes from Mongolia or out of Mongolia, that the, after all, the majority is not always wrong. The majority may be right. Not always right, but it may be right. And so I would join with my colleague, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Sherman and all the other speakers in what they've said. There's been tough discussion, difficulties here. We're facing them and surmounting them. And the great thing about the assembly is it puts into practice the great words of the English poet, and who was also a statesman, Milton, when he said this, Let truth and falsehood grapple. Whoever knew truth to be put to the worse in a free and open encounter. Now, in this assembly, there's been a free and open encounter. And we shall adjourn when we break up. And I know, in spite of the fears, that all those here will meet again at the next session or the session after that. And we shall struggle for our objectives. Objectives of peace and security. Not merely on the political side, on the economic side. Because, as the distinguished delegate of Lebanon said here quite early, if we can settle the economic problems, if we can give the ordinary peoples of the world everywhere better standards of living, and we stand for that, then the causes, or some of the main causes of war, may be averted. Really, fellow delegates, I'm not speaking like a president at all. I almost think I'm back in political committee number one, from which you removed me. But before I formally adjourn, I thank you for your splendid attendance here this afternoon. There's never been an assembly that's worked harder. Mr. Vyshynski would agree with that. Everybody, all of you, would agree with that. I won't go into the number of meetings. The delegates have worked. I'm afraid they've been pressed at times too hard. Now, don't sell the United Nations short. Stick up for the assembly. Stick up for what achievements have been made. Because you've got people who'll deprecate the things you have done. So don't add to the fuel of those who sow distrust of the United Nations, which is the greatest organisation in the world today. Now, before I formally adjourn the assembly, because it's merely an adjournment, we shall meet again in headquarters in April. There are two things I want to mention. First of all, we fixed Friday, the 1st of April, for the date, and the Friday may have to yield to the following Tuesday, because of secretarial arrangements, in which case you'll all be fully informed. And you'll also be informed of all the detailed meetings of the various agencies and subordinate bodies, the commissions that have been appointed, the interim committee and the like. And so I thank you for your help, and I now declare the assembly adjourned, thanking Paris, thanking France, thanking the government of France for all they've done to make our stay in their great city, in their great land, memorable to us for all our lives. Thank you.