Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to the great hall of the Cooper Union, where we are about to continue with our meeting under the general title of Looking Ahead in Education. And the subject for discussion is the educational revolution. It gives me a great deal of pleasure, and it's a very definite honor, to be able to present to you Dr. Edwin S. Burdell, the president of the Cooper Union. Thank you. Dr. Burdell has had a very broad background in the general heading of education. In spite of the fact that he has spent some time as a banker, he nevertheless felt that education was of more importance and interest and nearer to his heart. And so with his fine background from Ohio State and MIT and Harvard universities, he has worked in sociology, was director of emergency education in the state of Ohio, and the state of Ohio State and the state of Ohio State and the state of Ohio State. And so with his great background from Ohio State, I would like to say that Dr. Burdell has done a tremendous amount of work in the field, in the very difficult field, of integrating the arts and the sciences. Dr. Burdell's career, as you know, the Cooper Union is well-known for its engineering and art school, not to mention its adult education. And the fact that this school has been able to tie together such, what some people think, diverse subjects, has been largely due to the skill of Dr. Burdell and his very excellent background and his great understanding of people and the problems of education. Among other things, I'm very happy to be able to introduce Dr. Burdell tonight, because he introduced me to the Cooper Union Forum several years ago. And I'll be perfectly honest with you that it was a very great and thrilling moment to me. And I have certainly enjoyed every moment since then, too, Dr. Burdell. It was a very happy thing that you did, at least as far as I was personally concerned. But before we go on with the program tonight, oh, I have a lot of things to say. I'm just very, very lucky tonight. I have something to say. Before we go on with the program, there is an honor to come to us and to come to Dr. Burdell. Dr. Burdell. And the gentleman here to present that to Dr. Burdell is perhaps well known to all of you people as the director of radio station WNYC, Dr. Siegel. Dr. Siegel is also president of the National Association of Educational Broadcasters. And just incidentally, a man who has devoted his life to presenting high-class quality programs to the largest segment of the population that he can possibly reach. And WNYC, I think, under the direction of Dr. Siegel, has done a simply wonderful job in adult education. And I am delighted that he is here. Dr. Siegel. Ladies and gentlemen, about three years ago, on the campus of the University of Illinois, a group of educational broadcasters got together to examine the state of American radio. And they found that a large segment of the American people were not happy with the sort of radio programming that was being offered to them. And there on the campus of the University of Illinois, there grew a dream that possibly radio should be used for something more than just merely shallow trivia. That the American people were possibly a little more adult, a little more mature, a little more literate than the so-called 12-year-old mentality, to which a great many broadcasters had attributed to them. And they decided three years ago that it would be a good idea if you could take some of the best programs that were available, let us say, in New York, and make it available to the people of Minneapolis, or the people of Los Angeles, or Boston. This was a dream. There were no resources available to do it. So three years ago, the trustees of Cooper Union, who were far-sighted enough to realize that possibly you might be able to extend these tradition-filled walls to the far corners of America, launched the project of making it possible to take these Cooper Union Forum lectures and distribute them to the educational broadcasting stations of the United States. It was that start that today has become a distribution of some 10 hours of high top quality programs to some 82 radio stations from coast to coast. By means of these broadcasts, Cooper Union has proven that people will listen to an hour lecture, if it were broadcast and if it were, if it had a great deal of scholarship and integrity. By this action, Cooper Union has become probably the largest operator of an extension service of any institution of higher learning in the United States. And so at Biloxi, Mississippi, on November 4th of last year, the National Association of Educational Broadcasters and Convention assembled, passed a resolution, and I'd like to read it to you. Be it resolved that the National Association of Educational Broadcasters and Convention assembled, go on record as citing the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, for its contribution to the field of adult education, through its pioneering efforts in and concrete support of the NAEB tape network, and the consistent high quality of the Cooper Union Forum radio program series. To the trustees of Cooper Union, to President Burdell, to Professor Johnson Fairchild, our heartiest thanks and our great admiration. Professor Burdell. Thank you. My subject this evening, Mr. Siegel has disappeared behind the scenes, but nevertheless, I would remind him that the subject of my talk tonight is the educational revolution. And that reminds me that the revolution in radio, or the revolution in education which radio promised us some 25 years or more ago, failed to come off. Even the promise might have died too, except for the men and women associated with Mr. Siegel in the National Association of Educational Broadcasters in the University and other non-commercial stations from coast to coast. I think Mr. Siegel and his group are keeping alive radio's possibilities as an educational medium. And if any sizable portion of the airwaves is ever to be devoted to giving this democracy a better informed, more intelligent, more discerning citizenry, then it will be because these men associated with the educational broadcasting group are keeping a dream alive. And please let me respond to Professor Fairchild's gracious introduction. And let me say that those of us on the staff of the Cooper Union are very pleased to have him with us. And I'm sure that the many groups... I'm sure that the audiences that turn out from week to week and month to month and even on a rainy, snowy, stormy night like this is ample evidence of the leadership which Professor Fairchild is giving adult education in the metropolitan area of New York. And I think it must be gratifying to you as it is to us to hear from Mr. Siegel that the radio waves go out from the Great Hall to the whole United States. And I'm sure that the influence of the United States. And I'm sure that Peter Cooper were alive, and perhaps even he knows it now, that the influence of the institution which he founded is not a narrow parochial one limited to the area of the Lower East Side. But its influence penetrates the great national area which was only in its infancy and in its frontier stages when Peter Cooper founded this institution nearly 100 years ago. So, radio has indeed realized not only a dream of adult education, but it seems to me of the very fondest hopes of our great beloved founder, Peter Cooper.изg my subject this evening, as I have said, is the educational revolution. Perhaps the most dramatic change that has taken place in American life in the first half of the 20th century century has been the increase in the amount of education that we all enjoy. Each year, in a relatively even progression, a greater proportion of the population has had the opportunity for elementary, secondary, and higher education. Along with these widening opportunities has come also a lengthening span of time needed to complete professional preparation of the future leaders in science, arts, and civic life. This apparently inevitable result of the growth of knowledge in every field has had some unfortunate sociological effects, deferment of marriage, delay in the establishment of economic independence, and the consequent postponement of a new family. Within the next four days, a committee of the United States Senate must report on a bill for some form of universal military training, and this action promises equally great changes in the American educational scene. Just as the 19th century has been called the century of the Industrial Revolution, so the 20th century is on the way to becoming the century of the Educational Revolution. At the turn of the century, 100,000 youths, or only six in every hundred of all the 17-year-olds, were graduated from high school. But in 1946, approximately a million youth, or 46 in every hundred of the 17-year-olds, were graduated from high school. In 1900, approximately 4% of all youth between the ages of 18 and 21 were enrolled in colleges, whereas in 1946, approximately 13% of the same age group were enrolled in colleges, about 1,700,000 out of a population age group of 9,400,000. There are available many studies of this phenomenal increase in the schooling level of the American population. There are available figures which indicate that a vast proportion of educatable youth is denied adequate training because of lack of financial resources. Some investigators have found that taken as a group, the high school pupils who go to college exhibit superior abilities, but too many able and often brilliant young minds are left behind because they cannot meet present-day college expenses. What is even more deplorable and dangerous, since young minds capable of a high level of training are the nation's most valuable natural resource, is that such students know that colleges are accepting a large group who, even though they may pay full tuition, are a drain on that surplus expenditure that a college incurs over and above what any student returns to it in fees. Parenthetically, let me add that I know of no recognized college in this country that is maintained by tuition fees alone. No matter how wealthy a student may be, there is no place where he is required to pay the full cost of his college tuition. Part of it comes always from endowment or from taxes. If we assume that knowledge is preferable to ignorance and that our schools are reasonably effective in imparting knowledge of facts and vocational skills, then America's experiment in mass education has been successful. But the unprecedented growth of the college population over the past half century has created two problems that transcend all others. First, how to achieve a reconciliation between teaching the student a body of facts and educating him to a sense of values. And second, through this achievement, to prepare man's mind to control the life and death forces involved in the release of atomic energy. Facts are important, but of greater importance is what we make of them. Knowledge and wisdom have to be woven into the fabric. At no previous time in the history of man have so many trained persons been working on facts. Unfortunately, the funds and personnel for physical research far outstrip those for social research, with the result that the storehouse of facts on the physical world is bulgy. Whereas the pursuit of the social studies lags in comparison. Science, insofar as it is defined as a methodology or as an instrument of investigation, is neutral and objective. And the facts themselves, as induced by these bias-free methods, are neutral. But we lose sight of the undeniable truth that the very freedom from bias upon which science depends is a highly moral issue. Science and scientists do not practice in a vacuum. They are parts of and products of the social environment. That environment may be an atmosphere in which direction of investigation, use of resources, and freedom of publication are controlled by policies of state, religion, or economic self-interest. In which case, science and the scientists are only the instruments of one of these groups, hence subservient both as to ends and as to means. Under such circumstances, science is not and cannot remain neutral. It is critically in need of a democratic milieu and must be vitally concerned with the maintenance of the democratic safeguards of Western civilization. Insofar as science teachers are the embodiment of honesty, integrity, and truth, they have a responsibility to point out those virtues as intrinsic and inherent in the pursuit of higher education. They cannot shift that responsibility for this to specialists in moral precepts such as the church or the family, nor can those two institutions shift the emphasis back onto the scientists. The situation calls for teamwork. No man, no department, no faculty can have a monopoly on morals. The football coach, the machine design professor, and the philosopher are all equally responsible for helping students to synthesize the realm of facts and the realm of values. Each teacher, through his actions and his attitude toward his subject and his students, must help to create a reverence for the mighty principles not only of external nature, but also of internal human nature, which reveals a right way of conduct. His is the responsibility to inquire into the contribution that the various subject matter fields make, or could make, to create an ethical awareness on the part of the students, a readiness to accept the responsibility of intelligent citizenship. The inculcation of a high standard of professional ethics always has been and remains a major concern of the professional schools. For knowledge is power. An intelligent cynic is more dangerous to mankind than a stupid one, and a trained intelligent cynic is the most ominous of all. If we cannot train professional doctors, lawyers, and engineers with moral integrity, it would be far better not to train them at all. In the disinterested love of truth, we may find the unity of purpose of the scientist, the saint, and the scholar. The scholar seeks truth in what is known of the past, while the saint seeks truth in the great unknown beyond human experience. And the scientist adventures all along the frontier between the known and the unknown. All men must believe in the value of the individual who is able to discover truth, and in the individual's responsibility to act upon his convictions of truth for the welfare of mankind. It appears to many of us that the technique of release of atomic energy came to man lamentably unprepared to safeguard its uses for the benefit of mankind. Its inaugural was a holocaust of human destruction, such as the world in its darkest ages never equaled. To be sure, many Americans are frightened by its capacity for destruction, and are credulous as to its potentialities for cheap and abundant power. But how many are concerned with ways and means of changing men's minds in order to cope with it? Various forms of world organization are ardently proposed in addition to the United Nations already in being. Perhaps some of the adherents of the more comprehensive schemes are activated more by primitive fears than by faith in man's ability to learn to live with himself. There is no more possibility of legislating world federation and hence gaining peace than there was of legislating national prohibition and hence gaining sobriety. Man himself must be changed, and changing his laws or his sovereignty or his treaty obligations will not be enough. There is a great opportunity, while there is yet time, to affect the next several college generations. Fortunately, there is ample evidence at hand that teachers are rising to the occasion. And however much the university scholars may scoff at the surveys of Western civilization, the capsule courses in social philosophy, and the packaged curricula in democracy, I see in them an honest attempt to inculcate an appreciation of the dignity of man, of his need for freedom, of his stumbling, fumbling climb up through the ages of serfdom of mind and body, of his quest for spiritual goals as well as material possessions. I have labored these points in my annual reports to our trustees and have referred to scientific humanism as the keystone of our educational philosophy at the Cooper Union, namely, to make this institution a union of science, the arts, and philosophy. I have expressed the hope that our graduates leave us with a keen appreciation of excellence in scholarship, human relations, and political responsibility, and that as educated persons, they will be capable of distinguishing the excellent from the inferior, the more valuable from the less. But the laid public must not think that schools of science have been unaware of their broader responsibilities for educating the whole man, or that they have just awakened to those responsibilities in the nightmare of the atomic bomb. It was 15 years ago that I had the privilege of beginning the assembly of the Division of Humanities out of a widely scattered and unrelated elements of instruction at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. And later, I had the honor of being appointed its first dean by Carl T. Compton, one of the world's leading scientists, and then the president of the Institute. In 1938, I had the opportunity at the Cooper Union of establishing a Department of Humanities which has been unique in coordinating subject matter fields. of the American Society for Engineering Education. However, the Cooper Union and the MIT are not alone in appreciating the values of humanism in professional education, as is demonstrated by the activities within the American Society for Engineering Education. This professional society emphasized the co-equal status of the humanistic social stem of engineering education with that of the scientific technological stem as early as 1940. And therefore, it was with much satisfaction that I heard Winston Churchill at the MIT Mid-Century Convocation a few years ago congratulate the Institute on having a dean of humanities, John E. Burchard, my successor, and on giving him a commanding part to play. Recognition of the value of an integrated educational approach with a broad objective of educating the whole man was further attested to by Mr. Churchill in his subsequent remarks which were in part, no technical knowledge can outweigh knowledge of the humanities in the gaining of which philosophy and history walk hand in hand. Our inheritance of well-founded, slowly conceived codes of honors, morals, and manners, the passionate conviction which so many hundreds of millions share together of the principles of freedom and justice are far more precious to us than anything that scientific discoveries could bestow. And those whose minds are attracted or compelled to rigid and symmetrical systems of government should remember that logic, like science, must be the servant and not the master of man. Human beings and human societies are not structures that are built or machines that are forged. They are plants that grow and must be tended as such. Life is a test, and this world is a place of trial. Always the problems, or it may be the same problem, will be presented to every generation in different forms, Mr. Churchill added. I said earlier this evening that one of the first concerns of American educators should be the effect of the lengthening span, the concerns of our educational group should be in the matter of the ever-lengthening span of the time needed to complete professional education of our future leaders in science, art, and civic life. Unfortunately, there is little specific data in published form to substantiate the generalizations that I shall have the temerity to submit. However, I do believe that college executives, drawing on their own experiences and observations, will agree in whole are in part with what I'm about to say. Approaching the problem from the standpoint of teaching efficiency, Dr. Paul Clapper, formerly president of Queens College here and now of the University of Chicago, said at a recent conference on the preparation of college teachers, and I quote, the urgent demand for shortening not only the period of general and technical education for the professions, but also the period of economic dependence calls for reappraisal of teaching techniques so that more may be taught effectively in less time. On the other hand, one may approach the problem from the standpoint of the economic hurdles facing qualified students. As a solution, I recommend that graduate and undergraduate financial aid be awarded not only on the basis of grades in college, but also on the basis of marital status and part-time earning opportunity. If the national welfare demands more professional personnel than the present system of educational economics provides, these innovations must be explored. America's successful filling of her new role as the active leader among democracies must perforce depend upon conscientious and educated American leaders and citizens. The responsibility for developing such a citizenry must in the long run be accepted by our American schools and colleges. Among educators, there will be no shrinking or shirking of this responsibility, but to meet the challenge, colleges must be assured of being able to enroll the most talented and intelligent in order to develop men and women capable of maximum professional and civic service to their communities and to the nation. The materialism of which America is accused must not be allowed to perpetuate the notion that the ability of a student's parents to pay his tuition should alone be the criterion for the student's admission to college. Low tuition state universities, the recent rapid growth of the community and the junior college movement, the system of state scholarships to colleges of the talented high school graduates' own choice, and the education of the GIs at government expense are all steps in the direction of education according to abilities rather than education according to the size of the family bank account. These all are for the ultimate benefit of America, democracy, and freedom everywhere, but it seems to me special consideration must be given to the sociological problems involved in the education of talented men and women for the professions. Higher professional standards, increased professional research and information, and more education for life and citizenship are educational advancements which no sane educator would decry. Indeed, we in our various fields of the professional education have been devoting our lives to the promotion of one or all of them. But the resultant necessity for our future professional practitioners to spend fully one-fifth of their mature working lives in financially unrenumerated study while their physical and psychological needs meanwhile are ignored is creating sociological and eugenic problems which deserve both study and action. probably the average age of students receiving their bachelor degrees is 22. If a two-year program of study for the master's degree is added plus two to four years for the doctorate, these young men and women now, not so young, enter upon their first paid professional job in their late twenties. These persons presumably have the same normal desires of mating, homemaking, and child rearing as have others of the same age group. Whatever money they have acquired from savings, scholarships, or part-time earnings, they have had to use up in order to scrimp by during ten years of higher education. And thus, their economic positions have not been conducive to marriage and homemaking. Or if they have established families, they have done so at the cost of severe self-denial or going into debt. Now, while the 56,000 persons receiving master's and doctor's degrees in 1949 were a small proportion of those in their age group for the country as a whole, these persons represent presumably the quintessence of the intellectual power of the nation. In my opinion, it behooves those educators and those research and industrial employers who are responsible for prolonging this state of affairs to give some consideration to its sociological implications. Even though it would be difficult to find statistics to prove it, most college officials know that discouragement, frustration, and promiscuity are the prices that these valuable young people too often have to pay for prolonged professional education. Furthermore, the dysgenic effect of postponement and limitation of offspring of mentally superior couples on the general biological level of the nation must not be overlooked. Part-time earning opportunity has been decreased because of the student's time, because the student's time is less, and because the jobs are fewer. On the one hand, daily class schedules and assignments are more intensive because of the additional ground that has to be covered on the one hand and fewer jobs of the conventional sort on the other. Even technological changes have had the effect of limiting or eliminating certain obvious jobs that for many college generations have helped to keep young men in enough cash to meet the costs of tuition and books. For instance, the student who 30 years ago tended a coal-burning furnace in exchange for his lodging finds himself displaced today by automatic gas, oil, and electric fuel heating apparatus. The old-fashioned boarding houses where waiting on tables offered opportunities to earn board and room have given way to the rooming house, the college dormitory, and the campus cafeteria. operated for property. Private tutoring seems to have given way to cram schools. Babysitting has of some value to the prospective homemaker, but it lacks the valuable incidental experience which actual jobs in industry used to provide before unionization became extensive. In the larger cities, unionization of maintenance workers and food handlers has eliminated a great deal of student health. This unionization affects especially part-time earning opportunity in and near the large centers of population, and particularly the Saturday and summer jobs at which students used to earn not only needed funds, but what is more important, valuable, practical experience. For example, take the field of engineering education with its four major branches of chemical, civil, electrical, and mechanical engineering. Chemical engineering students used to be able to find plant work, civil engineers, construction work, electrical engineers, testing and assembly of electrical equipment, mechanical engineers, mechanical worker, factory assembling and production. Thus, in each specialty, the student could gain pertinent practical experience as well as financial reward. Today, all such jobs are unionized, and the student job applicant finds either that the union's membership books are closed, or if open, that the initiation fee is prohibitively expensive. Another aspect of this problem is that economic pressures force young men and women into semi-professional vocations, untrained and ill-prepared to make the most of the opportunities that chance or personal activity may have put in their way. The vocations may, in the long run, suffer just as much from ill-prepared novices as the professions may suffer from the overworked and maladjusted products of our graduate schools. In my opinion, federal aid to veterans has been relatively successful. To be sure, a vast amount of paperwork for colleges was inevitable, but the long-run social and political benefits were worth both the cost and the inconvenience. An even more effective form of student aid by the state of New York has proved to be a workable solution of state aid to qualified students, permitting the individual student to choose his college and at the same time safeguarding freedom of the college from interference by the state. The highest art to be developed in a democratic society is the art of creating opportunity, whether for education or for jobs, and at the same time of preserving individual freedom against government interference and control. Frankly, I was pleased at the bold and forthright manner in which the G.I. solved this problem for himself. His four or five years of more or less enforced bachelorhood during the armed conflict was, upon demobilization, promptly relieved by marriage and mating. The birth rate of the United States jumped from 17.9 per thousand in 1940 to 25.8 per thousand in 1947 and there were nearly a million and a half more babies born in that post-war year than in the pre-war year of 1940. The G.I. who was bent on completing his education presented himself at the college gates with his bride, with or without child. Quonset huts mushroomed under the elms, baby buggies and diapers hung out to dry seemed incongruous at first against the conventional backdrop of ivy-clad dormitories. And these dormitories, which had hitherto housed nothing more complicated than irresponsible teenagers, had to be equipped with gas stoves and washing machines for family living. The schoolmen stood by wondering while nature made over the medieval traditions of the conventional colleges to fit the physical and psychological needs of the war veteran. To be sure, the government's subsidies awarded these men in terms of the service they gave to their country did make less hazardous their sailing on matrimonial seas. But I raise the question as to whether or not we should make it possible for qualified youth who have yet to give their services to the nation, either as soldiers, creative citizens, or practicing professionals, to have the means with which to marry while pursuing college education. Do not misunderstand me. None of the foregoing is intended to endorse hasty and ill-considered marriages based on passing attractions or transient passions, nor am I an advocate of malacodling this college generation or the next or its successors. What I've been trying to say is that our colleges and graduate schools have been forced by post-war conditions to meet certain hitherto ignored sociological situations. Educators should quickly evaluate this experience, determine the strengths and the weaknesses of the solutions which they had to improvise, and salvage those elements which appear to them to be worthy of meeting a basic challenge to education at this mid-century point, a challenge that, as the champion of freedom, America must accept. Finally, I would like to comment on possible effects upon professional education of the various proposals for the organization of universal military training. I shall present, too, some suggestions as to how we might cope through rearrangement of the school system, the present wasteful extension of professional education's time span, an extension that would be further exaggerated if rigid requirements for military training become inflexibly established by law. Indications at this writing are that UMT's initial military training will last four to six months, which would not constitute a serious break in students' education. A plan apparently favored by all four service branches proposes six-month training programs in camp or aboard ship, of which the first portion would be devoted to basic individual military training and the second portion to training in small units or in technical military establishments. This four services plan, which at this time seems likely to be acceptable to Congress, then contemplates that the trainee would be fed into some reserve unit for service as distinct from training, becoming a member of the so-called ready reserve of his particular service branch for a three-year period. And after completing his six-month initial training, a man could meet his ready reserve commitment by membership in the ROTC, the National Guard, and a special training program, or by enrolling for education in medicine, dentistry, science, or engineering, which would qualify him in some important technical or professional specialty vital to a possible all-out war emergency. Following this, he would become a member of the standby reserves unless he requested his continuation in the ready reserves and ultimately would become a retired reserve. Membership in any one of these reserves would not involve active military service except that the president could call up the ready reserve and an active Congress could call up the standby and the retired reserves. Now, the four services plan I have just described provides the opportunity for professional students to complete their training. The student, so qualified, would be permitted to count his professional education as his three years of ready service. Furthermore, the four services plan seems to me to be reasonable because the educational break would be for only six months. The mass manpower of Eastern Europe and Asia can be met by Western Europe and the Western Hemisphere only by the machine and the specialist if negotiations and compromise fail. The machine is the result of combined efforts of the scientist, the engineer, and the factory worker. The specialist who designs and manufactures the war machine has to be trained either in the engineering schools or the technical institutes. And thus, it would be sure folly to take every boy as he comes from high school and put him untrained and unskilled into uniform. It is estimated that from 60,000 to 80,000 young men per year should be trained in science and the various engineering specialties in order to maintain our present technological supremacy over our potential enemies. Probably several hundred thousand more young men need to be trained to take their places in the complicated industrial production of the armaments and instruments of war. Meanwhile, the number of engineering school graduates is decreasing. 38,000 were in the most recent graduating class, but there were 52,000 graduates in the year before that. The Engineers Joint Council estimates that 10% of male high school graduates would have to enter technical college if the demand is to be met. The usual percentage is only 5%, and even this soon may be reduced because of the present small high school enrollments resulting from decreased birth rates during the depression years. The seriousness of the situation is still further heightened by the fact that an estimated one-fourth of the engineers now employed in industry are already members of Armed Forces Reserves. There seems to me to be no reasonable basis for complaints that permitting postponement of military training of potential professional talent is undemocratic. The selection of the young men permitted to delay their military training until their pre-professional and professional educations are completed, would be on the same basis as it now is by local draft boards and would depend on the urgency of civilian manpower requirements and the aptitude of the individual for advanced education and training. And it seems to me most unfortunate that a few newspaper columnists, editorial writers, and politicians have insinuated that a qualified student training for a professional career is a slacker to be ridiculed. It is strange that the most vociferous enemies of this democratic system of building up our military and industrial defenses rely largely on the old 18th century shibboleth of egalitarianism. There is no more tragic nonsense to be found in our country than the notion that all of our citizens are equally endowed with the same skills, aptitudes, and capacities. Every citizen has an important contribution to make, but it must be in terms of his own native aptitudes. Treating each person as an individual and training him in those terms are all the difference between democratic opportunity and totalitarian slavery. Nor is there any surer road to technological bankruptcy and the notion that scientists, engineers, and physicians can be trained in army cantonments or by trying to turn colleges into cantonments for the duration. The strength of the American colleges is in their autonomy and in the diversity of their approaches to the preparation of young men and women for professional practice. Courses of instruction are the result of careful planning, experimentation, and revision. Teachers and teaching materials are closely interwoven with the program, evidently to the layman, professional curricula as listed in the catalogs appear to be a series of academic strings more or less independent. Why, actually, they are like a net and when one or more courses are tampered with, a teacher lost, or a resource material moved, the whole program is dislocated. Professional curricula cannot be turned upside down overnight. In two world wars, we tried this with almost universal faith. The Students' Army Training Corps of World War I and the Army Specialized Training Program of World War II never came close to meeting their educational or military objectives. This is not the fault of the able and conscientious educational and military personnel who were assigned to do the task. The plan was fundamentally unsound and I suspect was in no small measure made largely as a gesture of appeasement to the misguided critics just referred to who, for some reason, delight in inflaming public opinion against an already efficient civilian system of education and training. The schoolmen are at a disadvantage in denouncing these proposals because they can easily be accused of self-interest and self-preservation. Perhaps it is up to you in this audience, to industry and to others imbued with the public interest to insist that the continuity of professional education be not too seriously interrupted. To put it in a homely phrase, we must be careful not to throw the baby out with the bathwater. The likelihood of universal military training, whether administered with collective rigidity or with intelligent flexibility, will, I suspect, have one salutary effect upon professional education in America. As I have said, it will cause professional schools to study rather intensively the problems arising from the excessive time span and expense of their various curricula. Even in recent times of peace, professional education has been on the defensive. It costs too much, takes too long, and it fails to equip its graduates for immediate practice. I mean, of course, that it costs too much to the student who has not the good fortune to be enrolled in the tuition-free professional schools of the Cooper Union. Finally, professional education fails to equip its graduates for immediate entrance into practice because the curriculum is so crowded by these vast new areas of science. Professional schools are very much like Alice who was told by the Red Queen that it takes all the running you can do to keep in the same place, and if you want to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that. At best, the laboratory can illustrate principles, and at best, the classroom can be a place where theoretical problems are solved. There's little room in the schedule for practical applications. Hence, the licensing laws in most states require an internship in engineering and architecture three or more years before the neophytes may take their examinations for practice. Well, our evening engineering students at the Cooper Union, on the other hand, gain practical experience in their daytime employment as they gain scientific information in the evening, and they test the real-life experience enough during the daytime employment to be ready for the flavor of science and the humanities in their college studies. Thus, the unavoidably artificial atmosphere of the classroom, which is full of deferred reality, becomes, in our coordinated evening education, a doing as well as a learning situation. Professions must concern themselves with the hurdles they have placed in the way of young men and women of intellectual ability to reach professional adequacy and their educational goals. The professions cannot avoid public criticism if they continue to add time upon their requirements for preparation for this professional practice. Perhaps because of a realization of these and other problems, more and more professional groups such as chemical engineers, the nursing profession, pharmacists, engineering teachers, and architects are now taking inventories. It's been my privilege during the past two years to serve as chairman of a commission of the American Institute of Architects to study the education and registration and registration of architects. Traveling from Maine to California, I have visited schools and offices and held conferences with practicing architects, and I have noted with satisfaction that the architectural profession as a whole is keenly interested in the preparation of young men for practice. Indeed, the practicing architects are prepared to take on their share of training and guidance of the young graduate during his period of internship between leaving college and taking the state license examinations. Now, in the following closing paragraphs, I shall propose a reshaping of secondary and higher education to meet this challenge of ever-lengthening professional requirements. If it should happen that Congress, supported by public opinion, does adopt an extended universal military training program that fails to make any exceptions at the coming of military age, then higher education may find the need of some such plan more immediately imperative. But quite independent of wars and their consequences, I am convinced that the traditional four years of high school and four years of college can be regrouped to advantage. To begin with, I would consider combining junior high school and the first two years of senior high school into a four-year experience, which, for want of a better term, I would call a middle school. I would follow that by a two-year terminal junior course at the time of, at the end of which, I would award an associate in arts or science degree to young men and women at the ages of 18 or 19. This two-year junior college terminal course would provide an outlet for those who are not going on for advanced studies or research or for the professions and would give these graduates a general or vocational preparation. There would also need to be established a much more rigorous type of educational unit similar to the German gymnasium or the French lycée. A student in this type of pre-university curriculum would be able to make a thorough application of his mental powers to the physical and social sciences and the humanities. After students have completed this pre-university curriculum and have become further matured by a prescribed period of military service, the graduate schools of law, medicine, engineering, and architecture will be able to judge the candidate's capacity for professional training on a broader basis than they now can. A student would then enter professional school at the end of his military service, which under the four services plan just described would be six months. But unless the two-semester plan is modified to a quarter system, the student might lose another six months or a total of one year from his studies. And therefore, he would enter his three- to four-year professional program at about 19 and would arrive at the point of internship at about 23 years of age instead of the present average age of 25. Public high schools because of wide variation in aptitudes, talents, and intelligence in their student bodies must gear perhaps necessarily their academic standards close to the least common denominator of low-ability students. The consequence is that colleges and universities are forced to devote their freshman and sophomore years to supplying students with backgrounds that they should have received in high school. Professor David Dacus, an English scholar who has spent a good many years teaching in both American and British universities in a recent article written for the New York Herald Tribune, declared that the American student enters college with less mathematics and science than his counterpart in England and with little history and no real master of language, not even the English language. In these circumstances, Dr. Preser Dacus wrote, it is understandable that what in Britain would be considered real university work is in this country pushed on to the graduate level. The waste of the younger years, the greatest years of all for learning, where curiosity is active and good habits of reading and writing can be cultivated, remains the real fault of modern American education. Unquote. My plan does not mean scrapping the present high school staff or building, but it does involve a division of labor, and this may be very difficult, where privately controlled colleges have to work out a new modus vivendi with the public schools. In the states where the junior college already has a good start, as in California, the adjustment can be made probably relatively easy. I believe that this plan would achieve several sociological advantages. Earning capacity sufficient to warrant marriage and establishment of a family would be possible at an earlier age than at present. The community would receive professional services sooner than otherwise, and the facilities for professional education would be less taxed because the process of selecting candidates for admission would be more efficient. The points that I have attempted to make here are that professional education should be administered in terms of students' individual aptitudes and abilities, that the education of professional men and women is vital to human welfare because these are the future leaders of both our industrial and military armies, that the continuity of professional education should not be sacrificed to any rigid scheduling of military service, and that the inordinate expense and length of time required to achieve professional education must be lessened whether the nation is at war or at peace. To meet the various problems of the second half of the 20th century, we need professionally trained specialists. We need young men with basic military training. We also need a citizenry trained to recognize the values to be gained from exploring the humanities and the social sciences. To produce a nation of adults, equipped in all three fields, educators face a challenge to their creative abilities. The task of building an effective system of education requires imagination, skill, knowledge, and courage. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, President Burdell. I'm certainly delighted to hear that very thoughtful talk on the educational revolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I have several comments that I would like to make to you. One is that Dr. Seymour Segal, director of WNYC, sent his apologies and regrets to you. I shouldn't tell you this perhaps, but I do happen to know that this morning Mr. Segal was giving a lecture in Urbana, Illinois. You remember that it's been snowing today and in addition to having a cold and having had a very hard day, he flew to get here and it was a very rough trip. He had an unusually rough trip and he begged that you would understand that he had had a little difficulty today and he was very anxious to get in that bed, sir. That is the reason why he was not able to stay. And there are one or two other things. You know, I'm very delighted that Cooper Union received that forum award and that award for adult education, but that wouldn't be possible if we didn't have a thinking and adult audience, you know. So I can't give you an award like that, but I think that you people deserve it and from my heart you certainly do. And there's one other honor that we have had here in the great hall this evening and something that I am very remiss in, I really didn't know until I sat down, that a great engineer and a great friend of Cooper Union, the chairman of the board of trustees of the Cooper Union, Dr. Gayno Dunn, is here in the hall and is sitting right down in front of me here. Dr. Gayno Dunn. Oh, why don't you stand up, sir? Oh, thank you. Thank you. All right, we'll have our intermission now, our usual intermission to be followed by question period. I have, looks like, at least three microphones in front of me and we have paper and pencil and be delighted to have your questions. Thank you. All right, uh, Dr. Burdell, is there a danger in federal aid to education? How can the poor student get the necessary subsidy? Well, of course, there's always a danger in any subsidy, I suppose, but the, uh, if federal aid to education is administered as skillfully as state aid to education is administered in New York, I see no particular difficulty there. You realize that in the state of New York, uh, qualified high school students obtained scholarships which are assured them through four years of college work. They apply to their high school principal and, uh, their qualifications are passed on by the state education authorities in Albany. Uh, the federal aid to education can, can be bad and it can be, uh, can be good. At least it cannot, it can be administered so it won't be harmful, let's put it that way. And, uh, if grants are made to the state departments of education and they in turn administer it as skillfully as does the state of New York, I see nothing to be fearful of. The GI, uh, uh, subsidy, as I've indicated, worked fairly well. Uh, there was an enormous amount of paperwork and, uh, there were, there were a good many headaches. There, there have been some disgraceful, uh, situation revealed in which, uh, schools have sprung up overnight to do nothing but exploit the GI. I'm more concerned about the exploitation of the GI than I am about the exploitation of us taxpayers, bad as that is. But the GI, who thought he was getting, getting an education and instead got a gold break, uh, I, I feel pretty sorry for him. And there, there were a few of those. What was the other part of this question? Well, I think that was, uh, most of it. Well, the poor students, uh, can't get subsidies for college education, but the poor students, uh, at least of theoretical subjects, can be trained in the vocational schools. And you have in Brooklyn, the, uh, Institute of, uh, of, uh, I think it's, uh, technical arts under Dr. Klitgård and their equipment and their staff is as fine as you'd find, uh, in any, uh, college or graduate school, but it's geared to another level, training, so that the, the student who can't master higher mathematics and physics can still get a good training and still be a useful citizen with a high vocational, uh, training at, uh, within its reach. Thank you very much. You notice, ladies and gentlemen, that even educators think about the taxpayer because they're taxpayers also, aren't we? I mean, what we have, we have to pay. Dr. Burdell, what do you think about the current attacks on education, such as the Pasadena story? Well, they're unfortunate in some ways and they may be a good thing in others because, uh, it will make the citizens, I should think of every community, look into their own school systems. I, I think that, uh, the city of New York has done a much more intelligent thing in, in the, uh, mayor's management survey in engaging two very qualified people, uh, Professor Strayer and Mr. Yabner to make a report. Uh, I was chairman of a public meeting in which this report was discussed and it was received with, uh, with enthusiasm by the, uh, members of the staff of the Board of Education so that, uh, the attacks can be good and they can be bad and they can be bad. Where they, uh, where the attack is made by self-seeking and, uh, uh, unreliable individuals, uh, it could mislead a great many people and, uh, I think it can, uh, do a great deal of harm. Uh, perhaps it, as I say, it will put some school communities on the alert, uh, to look into their own housekeeping before, uh, some crank comes along and, uh, muddies the waters. All this is part of living in a democracy and it's too bad that, uh, Pasadena, Englewood, uh, one or two towns out on Long Island are, uh, now, uh, in the throes of a so-called investigation but, uh, perhaps in the long run it, it'll work out for the best. All right, Dr. Burdell, thank you. And, uh, gentlemen's been patiently waiting to ask you a question. This is Mr. Cooper. I should think we have some interest in Mr. Cooper or that name wouldn't you? Yes. All right, Mr. Cooper, now, a nice short question right here. Supreme Court Justice Douglas, in writing an article in the Times, states that there is less academic freedom in our colleges today and more uniformity than ever before. Do you agree with him? Uh, Supreme Court Justice Douglas feels that there is practically no or less academic freedom in the colleges than we have ever had in the past. Would you like to comment on that? Do you agree with him? No, I certainly don't agree. I, I know very few colleges. In fact, I couldn't, if I had to name one, I couldn't, uh, be sure of anyone where, uh, a well-trained and qualified college professor, uh, couldn't teach, uh, a subject on the broadest possible lines. Uh, of course, there'll be an occasional teacher who'll take advantage, uh, of his position, uh, and, uh, try to indoctrinate rather than educate. But I, I would certainly disagree that, uh, the American colleges were less free to teach honestly and truthfully than, than they were before. You don't think any of us look intimidated, sir? No? I don't think anybody at the Cooper Union looks very intimidated. All right. Well, and I think if you look upon the, the programs of the Cooper Union Forum over the last 25 years, uh, you certainly couldn't, uh, think of this institution influencing or inhibiting in any way the free expression of, of opinion, could they, in this very hall? I don't think so, and I don't think we're particularly unique. Thank you very much, and of course, ladies and gentlemen, it just so happens that when I do schedule a program that somebody might possibly look down and knows that, I have two very wonderful people, both of them in the audience tonight, who are behind me in this, uh, free expression and, uh, a great feeling for adult education. So, uh, yes, sir, we're not intimidated here and I want to thank you for being behind me for Mr. K. And you, sir. Your name is Fred Buck, B-U-C-K. Uh, Mr. Buck, Dr. Burdell. I want to ask, uh, Dr. Burdell, uh, two questions tonight. No. One of them, I notice that, uh, you're very interested, Dr. Burdell, in, uh, in the problems of old age. Now, don't you think that we should have some organized effort on the part of the colleges and universities to, uh, re-educate those people that arrive at the ages of 55, 60, and 65 that really have to be re-educated? That's question number one. And question number two is, um, how is it that today when we need a Lincoln or a Benjamin Franklin with all our professional education we haven't got one? All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Buck, then. I think the first part... Two very pertinent questions there, President Burdell. One is the re-education of those people who are, quote, chronologically old. I don't think anybody's old as long as they keep that mind going. One, what about re-education of the, uh, chronologically elderly people? And two, how come we are not able or haven't produced a man like Lincoln or some of our great past people? Well, I think the first question's a little easier to answer. I think that, uh, they, uh, that there's more and more effort to recognize this problem in the field of geriatrics, if you want to put a fancy name to it. It just so happens that I've been asked to come to the state office building tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock as Commissioner Stitchman, a member of Governor Dewey's cabinet, has asked me to come in to advise him on this very problem. Uh, what can he do in the public housing projects throughout the United States to show more concern for the aged, for those men who are beyond the customary years of employment? In other words, how can housing projects and how can the communities around those housing projects serve those people more adequately and more humanely? So that, uh, while nothing, uh, much has been done, uh, it does look as though public officials, uh, we're going to call upon, uh, college people, uh, to come and help solve some of these problems. And then there are a number of things, of course, that can be done, uh, to create new interests and new activities. And perhaps, uh, industry itself will find new areas in which men beyond the customary age of retirement of 65, uh, can continue a useful life and, uh, and earn a certain amount of money. Now, as to why the times do not bring forth, uh, a hero competent to carry the situation, I suppose you'd have to go back to Thomas Carlyle and, uh, some of the other essayists on the question. Uh, I'm sure I don't know why these people haven't shown up. Uh, the amazing thing that is a democracy somehow or other struggles through, it muddles through. And it's the totalitarian countries that collapse when the so-called fear collapses. The democracy must be somewhat divine in order to survive the muddling of some of our, uh, periods that we do go through. And, of course, there are these great peaks where the Lincolns, uh, come, come along and, and raise us up. Perhaps they give us enough spiritual sustenance to keep us over the lean years. I don't know. But democracy certainly seems to be the only social organization that survives without the man on horseback. Thank you, President Burdell. And when you see the commissioner tomorrow, tell him that there's some room in the forum for a few more people if he wants to pack a few more in here. All right, sir, do you think that the middle school idea would tend to make more young people complete their education at the best point? Would it cause an enrollment drop in the colleges and professional schools? Yes, I think it would in a very salutary drop because I think, unfortunately, a lot of people get into the colleges, especially the state universities, that have free tuition that shouldn't be there. Now, I don't mean that in a snobbish way, but I, I do know that when I have seen, at, for instance, the Ohio State University, thousands of youngsters come in from the cornfields and from the small towns of Ohio to the state capital and, and terrifically overcrowd, the college buildings, overstaff them, and they last just about one and a half or two years. They've made a fraternity or sorority, they've cheered at a football game, they maybe won their numerals in some minor sport, and then they go back to the cornfields and the country towns where they belong. And those that have the capacity and aptitude for professional training as a rule find the means with which to survive. Now, I think that if we can just recognize the realities of the situation and say that the vast number of these youngsters are equipped for only junior college work, let's do, as the state of California has done, and say, here are some junior colleges. Now, we can tell fairly well through testing procedures those that are qualified for professional training and those that aren't. The trouble is that too often the junior college has a certain stigma connected with it. Oh, you wasn't smart enough to go on. Well, we've got to get over that. There's a certain question of status and prestige. But surely, it's much better to get an associate in arts from a junior college than to have to go through life explaining that you left a high estate because your eyes failed. Well, you know what I mean by that. They flunked out. So they go through frustrated and unhappy and apologizing and alibi. Why not give them this associate and pat them on the back and they've gone home with their letters and their fraternity pins and they've been to a state college. I think that's the only way out. All right, thank you. Time is racing along now, President Burdell. Quickly, the gentleman states here that I understand that Mark Twain was a printer. Abraham Lincoln was definitely a political scientist and Shakespeare a writer, great literature. These people, I understand, knew nothing about physics and engineering. Would you consider that they're educated people? Thank you. Thank you. Yes or no? Yes, if it has to be yes or no, naturally. The element of science and mathematics is not the sine qua non of being an educated person or a cultured person. All right, thank you. What do you mean by scientific humanism? Now, we can't write a volume or take all night, sir, on this topic, but what do you mean by scientific humanism in a... A capsule. In a phrase. Well, I simply mean the purposes which Peter Cooper had in founding the Cooper Union for the advancement of science and art. That's what's written over our door. That's what's written on your program. We don't want these two disciplines going off on parallel tracks or on divergent tracks. We want them on parallel tracks. And as science advances, then the arts must come up, the humanities. Our gift for government, for education and so forth must match our gift for... in the sciences and in the field of engineering. If we can do that, then perhaps we won't have these tremendous lags in which atomic bombs are going off and we don't know how to control them or what to do about them. All right. Thank you. This was a wonderful opportunity. It's about the only time in my life that I can state to the president, please hurry up, sir. All right. You failed to mention the subject of progressive education, whereby discipline is removed from children's education. What is the present status of this movement in your opinion? What do you think about progressive education? We keep getting these book questions on me. You can write books on me. You can write books on me. You can write books on me. Well, the phrase progressive education, of course, has been a stick to beat somebody over the back with. It's been a phrase of stigma and opprobrium. And, of course, it's perhaps been carried to an extreme in some places. But progressive education, as far as I can see, is a realization that you're teaching these youngsters certain experiences in which they must participate in. And that looking at a blackboard and reciting from memory does not enter into the nature of the child. And the child has to learn by doing a certain number of things in the classroom. Aggressive education does not mean something horrible and terrible, in my opinion. And I think that where it is used as such a term of opprobrium, it's rather reflection on the person who uses it rather than otherwise. All right. Thank you. We all know, Dr. Burdell, what is expected of the educated people. I'm not sure about that, but this individual feels that. But in any event, the point of the question is what about the uneducated people who this gentleman would like to plead with you would like also to be trained? How, when, and where are these people to be trained? And under what conditions for leadership? leadership. He goes on to state that he feels that this type of training would lead to a much better balance of power in the community and a much better integration of social forces. I'm afraid I didn't get the first part of the question. I don't know whether it's an objection or a corroboration. How about the training? Briefly speaking, Doctor, how about the training and education for those people who have not had the advantages of higher education? What about the training for the citizen who has not had those advantages? Well, I think the vocational school and the technical institute and adult education after he gets out of those, a continuing process so that he doesn't feel when he's got an eighth grade certificate or a high school or a vocational arts certificate that he's through. He keeps coming to the Cooper Union Forum. That's the answer to him. Sir, how can higher education be expected to promote genuine social advances when it is completely dependent upon men of wealth for its support and approval of politicians, that is, men of wealth and politicians, both groups demanding conformity to the status quo rather than a progressive advance socially? Well, I would deny his premise that they are wholly dependent on men of wealth. I think Yale University, which most of you would say was a rich man's college, gets a vast amount of its revenue for operating purposes from the young men who go out from that, who are not, at least in the millionaire class, I think, at the time they graduate. And yet, they are returning to the university in small amounts the means by which their work is carried on. I think another example might be, let's say, the trustees of the Cooper Union. Are they controlling us and strangling us and stifling us? If you look at that distinguished list over the years with the Andrew Carnegies and the J.P. Morgans, on down to the distinguished men today, what grounds are there for such an assumption? I don't think there are any grounds. And you don't feel that the mayor's possession of wealth necessarily limits or makes a person unable to let education go its own free way, Dr. Brunet? I certainly do not. And I don't think, and I think there's very little interference by the politicians. I didn't touch on that. But I've seen state universities and they're relatively free from, that is, the politician, the political influence in the narrow state. I think sometimes their misguided interests come into state university councils, boards, and so forth. But it's not because they're trying to get Joe Doakes a job as janitor or something like that. That just isn't, it just isn't the case. All right, sir. Why should students be educated to a sense of values as you brought out? Don't you think they really should be educated to select their sense of values and standards, thus making them intellectually independent, not chaining their thoughts to a given set of ideas? Well, as far as I know, that's the only way you can teach the humanities is to give them a great variety of philosophies and theories. And they certainly are at liberty to choose their own personal philosophy after that. That's exactly what we do. That's why we have these courses in Western civilization, so that we can discuss the philosophies that grow out of the particular times in which they did evolve. All right. Thank you, Dr. Burdell. Here is a very old friend of the Cooper Union who has attended here for at least 20 or 30 years, Mr. Flannery. Mr. Flannery has a question to ask you. We always have a little discussion because he claims I want him to keep it shorter than he wants to keep it. But in any event, Mr. Flannery has a question for you, President Burdell. Dr. Burdell, and I appreciate the courtesy here, especially one of the trustees here. I'll make my question very short tonight. My question has to deal, Dr. Burdell, with this cultural lag, as I stated before two weeks ago, on between the physical science and social sciences. View of the fact that Dr. Fairchild has an article in Collier's encyclopedia. He calls himself a social geographer. I am in sort of a paradoxical dilemma with William James, if not Dewey, between the physical science and the social sciences. He, I would like to know how can we get out of this paradoxical dilemma between the physical sciences and the social sciences. And I would like to know what, between this adult education of which Dr. Fairchild claims he's a social geographer, whether geography is a social science rather than a physical science. And that's my question. I'd like to give some illumination, shine that light. Can you give us any illumination to that question, Dr. Irvin? Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Flannery. You remember, Dr. Burdell, I follow you for some time on the program and possibly I could get around to a little bit about that problem of the social versus pure science and geography. But perhaps you would like to carry on with that somehow. Well, the question of cultural lag and the products of the physical sciences and their acceptance getting ahead of improvements that might be derived through the social sciences is, of course, the thing that we're all concerned about. And that's why if we can educate engineers and scientists in terms of scientific humanism, we hope that it will not slow up their progress in science. It will simply mean that as they go ahead from new atomic discovery to another one, that they'll be pulling along some ideas as to how to cope with it. I don't know how else you can cut down the lag unless you get the people who are creating the lag to recognize that fact. Of course, it might also be well to provide the social sciences with a means with which to catch up. When you get great subsidies going to the physical sciences, as in the National Science Foundation, why that might explain one of the reasons. Perhaps if the taxpayers insisted that part of the funds be devoted to reducing cultural lag might help in these great national foundations. Certainly, there's no easy answer out of that. And as to the question of social geography, I leave that to my colleague entirely. All right, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very poor night out. Take care of yourselves and good evening. Thank you. Thank you.