Here now is our chairman, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The Northampton, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The Northampton, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The Northampton, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The Northampton, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The Northampton, the prominent member of the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. John Coleman, who was just introduced a number by the Police Department Bank. The National Anthem of Italy and the National Anthem of our own country, very brightly played by the New York City Police Department Bank. Now here is Mr. Coleman. Now here is Mr. Coleman. Yes. Mayor Impoletari, it is my distinct honor and privilege today to present to you and through you, the people of the City of New York, the Honorable Vittorio Pertuzio, the Mayor of Genoa, Italy. Mr. Coleman, Mr. Coleman, Mayor Pertuzio. Mr. Coleman, Mayor Pertuzio. Mayor Pertuzio, Dr. Mozzio, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. It is a two-fold pleasure for me today to greet my friend, the Honorable Vittorio Pertuzio, the Mayor of the ancient and renowned city of Genoa. It is a singular honor, first of all, to welcome the chief executive of the city wherein Christopher Columbus, the discoverer of America, was born. The world will ever hold Genoa in lofty esteem as the mother of the great admiral. Secondly, this opportunity is a welcome one for me since it affords me the advantage of expressing in public my deepest gratitude to Mayor Pertuzio for his untiring kindness and cordial hospitality to me when I visited Genoa last fall. The Mayor and the Mayor and the citizens of Genoa, on that occasion, made manifest their love for New York where so many of their kin have found happiness and success. Mayor Pertuzio, apart from his high qualifications as a distinguished gentleman, has an extraordinary personal history. He has, on many occasions, proved that he is a very brave man. His own career symbolizes Italy's struggle against all kinds of totalitarianism. In 1943, Mayor Pertuzio was shot while escaping the clutches of foreign secret police before he was finally rescued by the partisans. He had an outstanding record in the resistance movement in northern Italy. He risked his life many times in the cause of democratic principles. Following the liberation, our guest of honor was nominated by Rome to assist the prefect of Genoa. In 1946, he became a member of the city council of the city over which he now presides. In 1948, he was elected to the national parliament of his country, representing the Christian Democratic Party of Premier de Gasperi. He is an authority on letters concerning the merchant marine and has served on the Italian committee for the Marshall Plan. When he was elected mayor of Genoa last year, he defeated the communist incumbent who had held the post for four and a half years. This victory alone would have made our honored visitor a historic personage. The critical times through which his nation had come would have been tragic for the ideals of liberty and democracy if he and other courageous men like him had not given all their talents and strength of will to the common cause of democracy. For this great service, I, as mayor of New York, and on behalf of all our citizens, hail you, Mayor Pertuzio, as a valiant soldier of the democratic way of life. I salute you and the people of Genoa. May the cause for which you have labored so intensely be crowned with success. And when peace and freedom are restored to all the world, may your name, Mayor Pertuzio, be ever remembered for the great part you played in the salvation of your native land. Several weeks ago, I had the honor to entrust to Deputy Mayor Scurney of Genoa, during his visit here, the scroll for distinguished service presented to you by the citizens of the City of New York. I am pleased indeed to felicitate you personally and to formally give you this brief expression of New York's admiration for so distinguished a visitor. Mayor Pertuzio, may I personally, and in behalf of the people of the City of New York that I represent on this occasion, in recognition of your great contribution to the cause of democracy, particularly in your great fight in upholding democracy as opposed to communism in your own native city of Genoa, may I, for those things and all the things that you stand for in advancing the cause of democracy not only in Italy, but throughout the world, expressed to you through this presentation of the City's Medal of Honor, the appreciation of the people of the City of New York for your services for mankind. Mayor Impeleteri is pinning the Medal of Honor, the City's Gold Medal of Honor, on Mayor Vittorio Pertuzio of Genoa, Italy now. He's rather tall, smartly dressed, handsome-looking man, accepting the congratulations of the Mayor, and bowing and turning to the battery of news photographers that we have here on this bright day at the City Hall Plaza. They're posing for more pictures now, shaking the hand of the Mayor. Mayor Vittorio is about six feet two, I would say, weighing about 210 pounds. Now here again, Mr. Coleman. The Mayor of Genoa. Honorable Sindaco of New York, it is with profound commotion that I have listened to your words affectionate and cordial revolting to my modest person and revolting to the noble city that I have here the honor of representing. There are some facts and acts that are made up to the people. And every act that man has a own meaning, but there are some acts that have a particular meaning. So when she, Honorable Impeleteri, is come to Europe and is come to my city, she has not made up to the people only a visit of cordiality, that is a great way to all of us. She has also made up to the city of Christophoro Colombo and this is been sent to the people with recognition from the people of Genoa so connected to the land of America. But she, Honorable Impeleteri, is come to Genoa ambasciatore of democracy. She's как to understand that of that здheen才華 that is as expensive as the people of the United Kingdom edition of America, such asfinden as a cute middleyear so nice as possible to us get into Coalition in terms of of theétais familiar estadounid s' Lieber and that is வ for us who, Honorable Impeleteri, we are called it because she is theολlerini of that thatазывicon This is the view of America, ind szczegól due to its origin, and its social comunidad, was like this scene n. This visit is not as loud. It is not as feedback inicia regularly. This visit is the salute of the city of Cristoforo Colombo, the biggest city of the United States, and his mayor, who has had such great success in Genova and in Italy. This visit is the statement of a man who belongs to the new democratic democratic democratic and has contributed to the of this man and the Italian population to the great people of the United States, to the United States, which we are profoundly grateful, because we know all the sacrifices that this people have made to for us to give us the democratic democratic freedom when we have intervened so presently in the war and to protect them today with many sacrifices material and of men, so today we can say that the United States have taken in the world the patrocinia of democracy and have operated intelligently to defend the democracy in Europe and to defend the world really in all the world. Ebbene, onorevole Impeliteri, onorevole Sindaco di New York, è con questa fede che noi lavoriamo, perché le libertà democratiche siano veramente estese a tutto il mondo e vi sia pace e lavoro per tutti. Non è facile il nostro compito. Forse talvolta noi italiani non siamo compresi. Bisogna ricordare che la ricostruzione della democrazia in Italia è avvenuta proprio nel momento in cui noi eravamo gravati dal peso della sconfitta. Città care avevamo perduto. Territori nei quali il nostro lavoro poteva espletarsi. Miserie e rovine, ma l'attaccamento a questa forza, l'attaccamento a questa fede democratica era così vivo che noi abbiamo ripreso il nostro lavoro. Abbiamo lavorato. Lavoriamo. Disperatamente lavoriamo per ricostruire moralmente e materialmente il nostro paese. È con questi sentimenti, onorevole Impeliteri, che io saluto lei e la città di New York e le dico che siamo tenaci nell'opera di ricostruzione della democrazia nel nostro paese. Siamo tenaci e abbiamo degli esempi. Abbiamo degli esempi soprattutto a Genova. La tenacia di Colombo nel ricercare la vostra terra è un esempio a tutti i genovesi. E' un esempio deriso, non creduto, contrastato da ogni avversità, dagli uomini e dagli avvenimenti. Quest'uomo sapeva che questa grande terra esisteva e l'ha cercata disperatamente. E' andato assondando alle foci dei fiumi. E' andato cercando negli estuari, ovunque, cercando quel passaggio che lui voleva trovare per congiungere tutto il mondo sotto la croce cristiana. Ebbene, non importa se lui poi non ha trovato il passaggio, non importa se ognuno di noi non trova il passaggio, bisogna persistere altri, troverà la strada. La strada perché tutto il mondo sia libero in pace e nel lavoro. Grazie a tutti. which have a significance in themselves and are acts and deeds which assume a very special significance. Your visit to Genoa, Mr. Mayor, was one of those acts that have a special significance. You did not only visit the city of Columbus, but you came to our city as an ambassador of New York and as an ambassador of the United States. You were greeted by all of us as our friend and as a symbol of all you stand for and of all what New York and this great country of yours stands for. You represented in our hearts the symbol of the American friendship, which means so much to us. And we tried to express to you our feelings of thankfulness and of deep appreciation. You also came as a representative of democracy with all its possibilities, with its tremendous opportunities. You came in a time when we had just recovered democracy through a tremendous struggle. We had great difficulties, but we have been working hard to do this tremendous job of reconstruction. I believe, we all believe, that in spite of all difficulties, we shall win. We have great examples in our history. Among others, the example of the great men which you just honored with your inspired words. Columbus had faith. He believed that he would find his way to the Indians. Perhaps he didn't succeed at first. We may not succeed at first. But in the end, we shall succeed. We shall win. It is in this spirit that I wish to thank you all for your so warm and cordial welcome. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. We will now be entertained with some selections by the Police Department Glee Club. Gentlemen. Gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. La la la la la, it's an old Italian phrase, la la la la la, la la la la la la. Every little manina, there's the very first name. Every sweet signorina, said it the very same way. These funny little words don't really mean a thing. It's just a phrase that nowadays Italians love to sing. Oh, see, oh, la la la. It's a wonderful word, la la la la. If anyone asks you how you are, it's proper to sing. Oh, see, oh, la la la. Oh, see, oh, la la la. If the ladies should ask you if you care, you don't have a start, a love affair. Say, oh, see, oh, la la la. Does it mean yes or no? Does it mean no? Oh, well, yes and no. Cause, see, oh, la la la. Get together and sing, la la la la. It's easy to say, so try today. And I just think on the sea, come on, stop. Oh, see, oh, la la la. Oh, see, oh, la la la. Cause, see, oh, la la la. Oh, la la la la. Oh, la la la. Oh, la la la la. Oh, la la la la. Oh, la la la. Oh, la la la la. We'll settle up or settle down. They're in the day day. Because it's play day. There's a bottle, a laugh, a joke, a heck of a night. And then they're broke. We know tomorrow. We'll have tomorrow. We'll have tomorrow. We'll have tomorrow. When you're on your own, you're not alone. So when you belong to the lost power, Rangers, Manhattan's home. Oh, la la la. Oh, la la la. Thank you, Sergeant Dillon and men of the Glee Club. We would also wish to thank the members of the armed services of our country for coming here and honoring the mayor of Genoa today to the distinguished guests, to one and all, thank you very much. And to you, may I come back soon to us again? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Genoa, Italy, Vittorio Perattusio is awarded the official Medal of Honor of the city of New York by our own mayor, Vincent Arum Pelletieri. The police department band, the Corps of Policemen, and firemen are standing at attention now as the recessional is being going through. Mayor Perattusio and Mayor Perattusio talking once again and bowing here from the reception grandstand. From City Hall Park, WNYC has brought you the proceedings at the official reception for the mayor of Italy, the Honorable Vittorio Perattusio, mayor of Genoa, where he's just been warmly received by the mayor of New York City, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletieri. This has been a public service broadcast of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.