This is Jerry White speaking to you from Segment Headquarters, about to introduce the Director of Communications for the Municipal Broadcasting System, who is also the Communications Director for Civilian Defense, Seymour and Segal. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen. We're about to get a statement from Commissioner Arthur Wallander. Commissioner, what do you think about this test which has been going on here during the last hour? Well, Director Segal, I think it's been a fine showing by the Civil Defense workers. I think that it proves one thing that we can count on them in an emergency. The way they jumped into the breach here and put out fires and rescued those who were trapped and cleared debris and put on demonstrations of mobile laboratory work and the way they repaired the fractured mains, I think it all sums up to an efficient operation. I'm delighted with the way things have gone out here. I think that everybody concerned is worthy of a lot of praise. Thank you very much, Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Paduano of the Department of Water, Supply, Gas and Electricity. Commissioner, do you have anything to say about this test which has been going on here during the last hour? I've been completely satisfied with the splendid cooperation and turnout of our overall cooperation of all of our departments in the water supply. As you notice, the many trucks that were out and splendid coordination of all of our repair crews, it was splendid. Thank you very much, Commissioner Paduano. We have Commissioner Barron here, the Department of Commerce. You've been going around here as an official observer. Do you have any comment to make? Well, I'm very much impressed, Mr. Segal, with the fact that although there are many thousands of civilians on the scene, everything is conducted orderly. There's no panic. Everybody is cooperating. And I think I should say that everybody is enjoying particularly the spectacle of the Department of Water Supply. Thank you very much, Commissioner Barron. Good night. We expect the arrival of the mayor momentarily. And when he does arrive, we'll be able to put him on the air and air his reactions of exactly what he thinks has been going on and what progress has been made in the efforts of civilian defense to prepare us for any emergency. Until that time, we're to return you to our mobile sound truck, where we take you now. Again, we're to bring you to our, everybody too. Thank you. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Perfect. Amen. Amen. Amen.Aha, you Jimmy. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.