Ladies and gentlemen, the delegates of the Lithuanian-American Congress, I have the honor to introduce to you the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable John J. Bennett, a distinguished American, former head of the American Legion in this state, a distinguished lawyer and professor who is loyally serving citizens of this city for the past few years, and who has come here to represent Mayor Dwyer, who unfortunately was called off in an emergency to another post. I have the honor to introduce to you the Honorable John J. Bennett. Mr. President, Right Reverend and very Reverend Monsignore, Reverend Fathers, and fellow Americans. I am sure that all of you know that the life of the mayor of the city of New York is a very hectic one, as well as a very busy one. I am sure that you know from reading the newspapers that almost every day some matter comes up which disrupts his schedule. Now, of course, the difference in the lives of most of us and that of the mayor is that when certain matters come up and we have other engagements, we can simply say we're busy and we'll take care of that matter later in the day or maybe tomorrow or maybe next week. But when the type of matter comes up to the mayor means that he can't wait until next week, he can't wait until tomorrow. And he's got to do the particular matter right then and there. Because the matters that come before him are matters which usually have to do with the welfare of eight million people. So this afternoon, just about the time the mayor was stepping in the car, one of these matters arose which required him to take his coat and hat off and lay it on a chair and go back to his desk and tend to that important matter. And I'm sure that that's just what you'd want him to do. Because after all, when you elect a man a mayor, you want him to be on his job and take care of important matters just as soon as they arise. And with the mayor doing that kind of thing this afternoon on the matter that came before him just as he was leaving City Hall, I'm sure that you'll forgive him for his inability to be with you here this afternoon. He regrets very deeply his inability to come because he had looked forward with a great deal of anticipation meeting and greeting you here this afternoon. He sends you his deepest regrets and at the same time his best wishes to you for a most successful convention. May I, in his place, welcome you to the city of New York, those of you who come from out of town. I know that a great many here are friends and neighbors of my own in various parts of the city. That I don't need to welcome you. To our good friends who come to this convention from other parts of the country, other parts of the state of New York, we wish you a welcome. We hope that every moment of your time here will be enjoyable. But I know too that you didn't come here merely to enjoy yourselves because I know that the matters in which your Congress is interested are very serious matters. We're very happy to have you come for your convention to the city of New York. Because we feel here that because of many things you should feel welcome here. But there's another little thing that is of interest to us here in the city of New York that goes a long way back in the history of the city. As you remember, it was settled by the Dutch. You remember too that in those days it was called New Amsterdam. One of the governors was a man named Peter Stuyvesant. And we like to remember that when Peter Stuyvesant was looking around for a teacher here in the city of New York, he brought a Lithuanian over to teach the Dutch, Mr. Alexander Corollius Curtis, who became in history the first high school teacher of the city of New York and a Lithuanian. I said before that I knew you weren't here just to have a good time in New York, that you were addressing your minds in a very serious manner. We know that Lithuanian today is behind the Iron Curtain. We know that a brave nation along with Latvia and Estonia have lost their freedom. We know that countless patriots who dared to oppose the might of the Russian Communist horde have given their lives that their country might live. We know, too, that countless Lithuanian patriots, and in some cases even their families, have been sent to the mines of Siberia, and have been sent to the many slave camps which the Russian Communist government has set up. Probably most of them will never be heard from again. But with us, their memories will stay in our hearts as long as we live. Because we know that they were the real patriots who dared to oppose the power of a great nation in behalf of the liberty of their fellow citizens of their own nation. What they have done and what they have suffered is not only an inspiration to the Lithuanian people who remain in that sad country today, but it's an inspiration to every American, to every man and woman in the world who loves liberty. because it will make them feel that what little they can do, far away from suffering Lithuania, is small compared to the cruel things which have been experienced by the people who still remain there. We in America, as you know, we Americans, all of us, have a deep love for liberty. Never has any nation suffered in the cause of liberty that the sympathy of America and the aid of America, if possible, has failed to go out to her. Of course, we realize that in the case of Lithuania, she is actually surrounded by an iron curtain, and it's difficult for us to get material aid into her, but we still can do something for her and her people. We can let them know by meetings such as this that they are not forgotten, because when they realize that, it will kindle and rekindle the fires of hope which have not yet died out in the hearts of that brave people. We can fight their cause through, also, the United Nations, by our representatives in that organization, continuing to fight for the freedom of Lithuania. And we can do still something more, which I think is probably the most powerful weapon which we have at our command. We can pray, day and night, for Lithuania and her people. Of course, Lithuania bears her cross today. But who will dare say that God will not hear the prayers of her people and the prayers of her friends here in America and in other parts of the world who pray for her liberation, her restoration as an independent nation in the family of nations of the world, and for the freedom and the happiness of its people. I am sure I need not tell you that nobody is more anxious and more willing and ever ready to support the cause of liberty as Mayor O'Dwyer. He is with you in all that you do in your efforts to bring freedom back to Lithuania. He has asked me to assure you that he will continue to do all that he can, all that you ask him to do in the effort in which you are engaged. I am sure that you know that he is at your beck and call and will do whatever you ask him to do in this very holy crusade in which you are engaged. It is a great thing to be an American. Every night before we sleep, in our nightly prayers, that is one thing we ought to thank God for among many others, that we live in this happy land. I have had the privilege of serving my country in two wars. We thought both of those wars would end slavery. But I am afraid that our efforts were unsuccessful. Let's pray God too, that he will keep us from a third war because it would be a deadly one. Ask him to send us a lasting and a universal peace. And ask him also to give us the grace to so shape our lives, to have our respect always for all of our neighbors, to live in tolerance with all people. And ask him further to so shape our lives, and have us so conduct ourselves, that we may always remain worthy of the name of American. Mr. Deputy Mayor, I believe the delegates were especially happy to note that in speaking of liberty and of the cause for which we are fighting, you did not have to refer to any notes that you were speaking from the sentiment of your mind, of your heart, and of the ideals for which you have fought, as you said in two words. Please accept our sincere expressions of gratitude, both to yourself and to the Mayor of the City. Thank you.