The International Federation of Business and Professional Women, with its members in 18 countries of the world, has brought together today, by means of recording, several international figures to discuss world food and health problems, a challenge to women, as part of its program to mark International Women's Week. The interviews will be presented by Miss Lisa Sergio, editor of the Federation's magazine, Widening Horizons. Miss Sergio. My first and very pleasant duty is to act as ambassadors for our international president, Miss Sally Butler, detained elsewhere today by Federation Business, who extends to our members everywhere warm greetings and good wishes for International Week. Peace cannot be found while millions are hungry or diseased. And the United Nations Charter recognizes that modern civilization has resources and techniques to erase hunger and misery from the world. Men and women who have their finger on the pulse of this problem will tell us presently of their work, their plans, and where women must step in. It is with keen interest that we present first the Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN, Mr. Norris E. Dodd. I am happy for this opportunity to take part in a program celebrating International Women's Week. I understand that members of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women for sponsoring this program have made it their duty to study the problems of organized international action to promote the common interest of mankind. The Food and Agriculture Organization has a similar concern. The Food and Agriculture Organization has a similar concern. FAO's objective is to help governments raise the level of nutrition and improve the conditions of agriculture and rural people in all lands. This objective, in my opinion, is practical and realistic in building for a peaceful world. Unfortunately, more than half of the people of the world do not have sufficient food to maintain a decent standard of living. More people will go to bed hungry tonight than will go to bed well-fed. Hunger is scarcely a meal away from millions. In regions where people do have food and satisfactory nutritional standards, the situation is better than it was before the war. But in countries where people have had too little food, the situation has grown worse. In other words, the well-fed are better off than they were and the poorly fed, for the most part, are worse off. The gap between them is widened because the increase in food production has not kept pace with the rising world population, a population that's increasing by more than 20 million people a year. We must find a way to put surplus-producing power to work for humanity. At the same time, we must make our scientific and technical know-how available to hungry countries to enable them to increase their food production. The Food and Agriculture Organization was established to achieve this end five years ago. The 63 nations in our family have pledged to help nations raise the standard of living, to improve nutrition of the peoples of all countries, to increase the efficiency of farming, forestry, and fisheries, and better the conditions of rural people. But in order to succeed, these nations must have the support of all their peoples. And herein lies the challenge to the International Federation of Business and Professional Women. Through organizations such as yours, an informed public opinion can be created. An awareness of the size, the scope, and the urgency of the problem before us is the first step to effective action. All of us, individuals as well as nations, can then work together on a common front toward a common goal. To Dr. Phyllis Cilento, Vice President of the Federation of Business and Professional Women of Australia, and a great pioneer in public health work among primitive peoples, I put the question, are women ready for the task? Begin with me, Sergio. I know from experience that women's instinctive interests and sympathy are awakened as soon as she learns that there are human beings anywhere who need food or care to relieve their suffering. No special appeal to her is needed, for this is her very role, and therefore a greater challenge to her than to men, who looks at these things with a more objective eye. Wouldn't you say a rather more political eye? Well, perhaps so. A woman, despite political and economic implications, will gladly share what she has with those who need it. However, the contact with so-called civilized life in cities sometimes makes one wonder whether she is not becoming a little denated and losing sight of what has always been and always will be her most important role in life. Then, in a practical way, Dr. Cilento, how do we channel this instinct of women for the solution of these problems on an organized basis, such as is offered by the United Nations? At first, that sounds a very difficult problem to solve. And yet, it should not be so hard. If we, as you might say, allow our instincts to run away with us to some extent, and assert them in an organized way. We all feel the same about it, that's certain. So let not only the mothers' unions and the church women's societies, but also the business and professional women, the women's clubs. Indeed, every organization, local, national and international of women, band themselves together and speak with one voice, and no uncertain voice at that. Do you mean, for instance, through their voice as voters? Yes, as voters. And women form perhaps the greater proportion of voters, but also through their organizations. Let us say, where people are hungry, they must be fed. Where sickness prevails, it must be cured. And we will stand behind every country and every person who will do this. And we will not tolerate misery while there are means to preventing it. The means to prevent much misery does exist. And a leading medical man of the United Nations, Dr. Frank Calderon, special advisor to WHO, said this about the general standard of world health today. Well, as far as Europe is concerned, it's been going up. And today, probably, is it the power on much better than what it was before the war. I don't think we can discuss the question of the world's health in regard to Indian, Chinese, Latin American population groups. Enough work has not been done. A good deal of work is going on in Latin America, yes, in regard to yellow fever, malaria and typhus. But we just scratched the surface. And, as I said before, you cannot expect any one organization to do the job. We're talking about feeding a hundred thousand children. It doesn't mean anything. We've got six hundred million children in this world in underdeveloped areas. The problem, obviously, is enormous. Where does one begin, Dr. Calderon? You can't start off with a top medical welfare job in a country that has not organized itself in the fundamentals or the grassroots of public health. I'm telling you this because I believe that many times we've gone off on a bat, it seems to me, expecting an organization to go into a country like Ethiopia or Greece or certain parts of Africa or Latin America and go in there and try to pull this country up and have a wonderful tuberculosis program when they haven't even developed an ordinary health department with inspectors. You see? So I'd like to have you have this in mind as you start thinking about the functions of WHO, where it fits into the health of the world as a whole. For see, it's not a big, tremendous health department for the world. It wasn't designed to be that. It was designed, on the contrary, to develop health departments throughout the world. Just think back a hundred years ago, the way the health officers began to sell their bill of goods to their administrators. They didn't start off with hooping cough and measles and diphtheria and smallpox in those days. They were talking about filth diseases, garbage, water, sewage. The next phase came along with the fundamental child health phase in 1900, infant mortality and actual, actual maternal mortality. The next phase was tuberculosis. Later on, we could talk about syphilis. It was a gradual show over a hundred years period of time. And that's the only way you can introduce these problems into countries that haven't as yet started to do a job. Ms. Margaret Hickey, United Nations Chairman of our Federation, would agree that women have made a start already in many ways. She has brought the weight of our membership to bear at meetings of UN agencies and has seen the results. Dr. Calderon will be very happy to know that the International Federation of Business and Professional Women has already appointed a subcommittee of its own specialists in medical and nursing education. As the United Nations Chairman of the Federation, it's been a wonderful privilege to observe firsthand the hard work and the great faith of women in the United Nations. Of course, business and professional women from the beginning have recognized that for it to be successful, we must have many people with great professional knowledge and expert training. Dr. Very specifically, we are offering something in the Federation, aren't we, to promote that work? Dr. Yes, indeed. We have our own UN fellowship, which we are developing and will be bringing over to the United Nations our first International Federation Fellow. During the past year, 251 fellowships were granted by the United Nations in 36 countries. Dr. And we are encouraging women to seek these fellowships, to become interested in the exchange program for technical training. I think that's one of the most important things on our agenda in London. We are also interested in the programs for technical assistance to underdeveloped areas. Then we are going to give special attention to cooperation with ILO, to vocational training and guidance. I think women have an important role in the consideration not only of the economic and social and political problems, but in developing the great human and spiritual resources which we must have if the United Nations is to be truly effective. From India comes the final link in today's chain of thought. Mrs. Lakshmi Menon, trained in the practice of law in her native province of Travancore, India, is now chief of the Status of Women section in the UN, and knows what the UN itself is doing to enable women to gain more power on the world scene. Mrs. Menon. Quite often the question is asked whether the Commission on the Status of Women is trying to get 50% of all the world's jobs for women. The answer of course is that women want equality through freedom and not through patronage. Equal political rights for women, full possibility of taking proportionate share in life, which also implies full opportunity of fulfilling her duty to society as a citizen. It is true that governments of all the member states in signing the charter recognize the principle of equality of men and women, but the realization of this ideal would mean continued education of women and a break away from the traditions which keep them to the old habit of living. Progress since the end of the last war has been slow. For one thing, social attitudes can be changed only slowly and by persistent efforts by women themselves. All the same, one may attribute the extension of franchise to women in Belgium, in Chile, and recently in Syria and El Salvador to the pressure of opinion created by the United Nations, and especially by the Commission on the Status of Women. A great deal of the disadvantages that women have, even in progressive countries, is to be traced not so much to lack of educational opportunities as to certain traditional barriers which delimit the spheres of influence and the activities of women. These, unfortunately, do not easily yield even to the impact of education. The object of the Commission on the Status of Women and of all organizations devoting themselves to the supreme task of changing the status of women is to change the attitude of men and women in such a way that equality will be real and not theoretical. It is presumed that the standing of the whole problem would produce tangible results, if not at once, at least in the near future. And we have results already. They will be discussed at the Federation's Congress in London under the patronage of Princess Elizabeth from July 31st to August 6th. The theme of our Congress is achievement, and the challenge heard today can become achievement too, if all women accept it as seriously as it was offered. Thank you, Miss Lisa Sergio. You have just heard, by means of recording, a discussion on world food and health problems, presented by NBC Public Affairs, under the auspices of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women. Thank you. Thank you.
