And as far as one can see, there are people lined up outside the gates here. Just inside the White House fence, the White House police are stationed about every 10 feet. Outside, the people are jammed along the streets, and the Metropolitan Police have their policemen lined up every 4 feet facing the crowd. There are literally thousands of police on duty, and for the moment, people are just equally looking over there toward the corner of 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue. That's the corner where the President makes the turn and comes in here to go along in front of Pennsylvania Avenue in the White House and then come in through the West Gate. Alongside the area of the West Gate, stretching from the steps on which we are located, at the gate itself is a special detail of veterans who are lined up on both sides of the driveway, threatening to do honor to the Chief Executive as he comes home. To our front and right, directly in front of us, is a great inverted V made by two ladder trucks of the District Fire Department. The V, 100 feet in the air, is holding a huge banner which runs across Pennsylvania Avenue on which are in front of the words, Welcome home, Mr. President. The fire ladders are covered with bunting and drapery, and the spirit, as at Union Station, the spirit here now is, When's he coming? Oh boy, I'm just a-waiting to yell. I've been waiting for a long time. And they are waiting to come, and there's no question that soon the President will arrive here, and we'll be down in front of the White House so that they can give vent to their feelings, and there'll be no question about it, that Harry, the winner, has come home. In Lafayette Park, which is directly across from us here at the White House, it looks like a small convention in one section, there are a number of placards, people are holding placards saying, Welcome home, Harry, ADA for Harry, and so forth and so on. And now the sun has broken through all morning long here in Washington. It's been a bit day and dismal and rainy, but the sun broke through a short time ago, almost symbolic, one might say, to help greet the President, too, as he comes along Pennsylvania Avenue and moves up toward the White House. A few minutes ago, the Metropolitan Police Band here was playing Heartaches. The leader told us that it was dedicated to all the posters and commentators who missed and guessed wrong. The Marine Band, dressed in their bright red tunics and blue trousers, are waiting eagerly to render honors to the President. And across the street, the United States Air Force Band with their blue uniforms are waiting, too. New thrill cameras are masked here in front of the White House, microphones are all over the area, and there are a dozen still photographers who have been gauging and taking light meter readings and all set to go. Television cameras have been watching, and the big impression always here is the mass of people that stretches from Pennsylvania Avenue, along the avenue, all the way back to 8th Street. If you know Washington, that's quite an area, back to 8th Street, all through Lafayette Park. And on our left, way over to the old State Department building. They're waiting, eagerly waiting to see the President. And now, as we look over towards 15th and Pennsylvania Avenue, here comes the first phalanx of motorcycle policemen. A V of 100 motorcycle policemen, the first element in the cavalcade, preceding the President as he comes back. As we can see just over the heads of the crowd, way over there now, about 550 feet, we notice there are more and more policemen on motorcycles coming, and then comes first the truck, an old GI truck on which are jammed in every space photographers, flashing bulbs. Then comes the first car, Secret Service car. Now the cars have moved in front of a group of trees and have dipped down in the small valley, so we can't as yet see them. But we can see the people of the crowds over there waving and yelling. There are flags. Every school kid that could get out of school, and most of them are here, are waving flags and having a grand time. Well-stubbed and looking like they're all dressed up for their Sunday best. Now the President's car has moved around the corner, followed by other officials in their following cars. The President's car has moved up now past the Treasury Building in front of Old Riggs Building. And as he approaches the fire trucks with their banner, Welcome Home, Mr. President, he looks up at it and grins. He really has a grin. The crowds are yelling. You can probably hear them now as the President's car moves up a little bit closer and closer towards the center of the junction, right directly in front of the White House. The roar starts to go up. They've been waiting hours and hours in here, and they can hardly wait to let go of their vent. And the President now has moved up past the fire trucks and is directly in front of the White House, preceded by cameramen who are grinding away and shooting at him. And he's waving, having a wonderful time. He's really a happy man today. The crowd's let go of the roar. All the people in the back are standing on his hip toes. They're climbing on the old cannon on Lafayette Park and on the statue, trying to get a look at Harry S. Truman. His car moves, of course, very slowly. And he is really responding to this in noble fashion. He's having a wonderful time. And the folks that are greeting him are having just as wonderful a time doing it, too. Now the President has moved past through the, directly past the center of the White House along Pennsylvania Avenue, and is approaching the West Gate, approaching the West Gate, where a special group of veterans has been waiting to greet him. There's a mass of people there. Traffic has been stopped. Mass of people. The hundreds of motorcycle policemen escorting the President have stopped now, have put their motorcycles on both sides of the gate. The cavalcade for the moment has slowed up just a little bit. The excitement is getting more and more terrific here. The people have been waiting for hours and hours. And now the honor guard that extends from the driveway down to the gate have come to attention. They are now standing at Sulu. Inside the West Gate first comes the GI truck with the cameraman taking their pictures, followed by a newsreel truck. And now the Secret Service and police are clearing the gate, all set to move the President's car into the White House grounds itself. The first car is actually moving now through the gate. In that car is located Major Barrett, the chief of the Washington Police Force, along with other Secret Service men. That car is now inside the gate. The roar is terrific, as you can hear. They're waving and jumping up and down. This little lady with a red hat and a green shirt jumping up and down and mostly on a pogo stick. Just yelling and screaming, having a terrific time at having the President of the United States come home victoriously. His car hasn't quite come in the gate now, but we can see him dressed in a gray suit, waving his gray hat on both sides of the crowd, as now the President has finally entered the grounds of the White House. The President of the United States has come home, and you can probably hear the crowd in the background. He's really enjoying this horrific. There's a grin that goes a mile wide on his face. He's grinning and laughing and having a wonderful time, and alongside of him is Alvin Barkley, the Vice Presidential-elect. They're waving and having a wonderful time. You've never seen too happy a man in my life. The President is now coming right up here near the White House. He's waving and laughing, having a wonderful time. He recognizes some friends, gives a special greeting to them and the crowd, as photographers rush to take their pictures. Secret Service will rush alongside, and the kids are screaming and yelling, kids with American flags are waving. Here comes the car now within three feet of our mutual microphone. Mrs. Truman, Margaret. Daughter Margaret, Senator J. Howard McGrath, is sitting between Senator Barkley and the President. As the President arrives here, the photographers are shooting pictures, taking pictures as fast as they can as the newsreels grind away. The servants come out from the front door of the White House, take the rap from Mrs. Truman, open the front door. The President shakes hands with several of his secretariat who have come out. What a big grin he's got in his face. He really is a happy man. He shakes hands with a number of people, shakes hands with several reporters he knows. He turns around as the newsreels yell at them and say, Come on, Harry, turn around here and let's take a picture of you. So he did that. He turned around, waved his hand. Now the President is just leaving the door itself, getting through the door of the car. He's put his hat up in the front seat. Senator Barkley is now getting out. And the President moves up here on the steps of the White House, steps over and talks to Margaret and Mrs. Truman. As the United States Marine Band rend the honors, Hail to the Chief, and he stands at attention. The President of the United States is standing at attention, reaches over now and shakes hands with another colored servant who just advised us, Good to see you again, Mr. President. And now, Hail to the Chief by the United States Marine Band. Now the party has joined over to the right of the North Portico. Everyone is smiling, very happy, handshaking all around, warm greetings. And the President is now over to my right of the North Port here at the White House. He is talking to Commissioner Guy Mason of the District of Columbia, and turning now to other friends as they shake hands with him and welcome back home to the White House. I see daughter Margaret shaking hands, and she is wearing a very lovely orchid, as is Mrs. Truman. Everyone is very happy, and now, ladies and gentlemen, the President is moving over toward the center of the course. Just a moment now, he stops again to talk to someone. And shaking hands again, the photographers have milled down in front of our microphones, all taking shots as fast as they can. The newsreels are grinding away, and now the President is exchanging a few words with Vice President-elect Calvin Barkley, and he pauses again to shake hands. Of course, everyone is very happy to see him. I talked to the doorman here at the White House. He says the staff has been anxiously awaiting him, and the President has walked in to the door, exchanged a few words with some of the White House staff, and now back out again, smiling very happily, exchanging words again with his many, many friends. His daughter, Margaret, has come over, whispered a few words in his ear, and smiling broadly. As I said, I was talking to the doorman. He said, everyone here at the White House staff is very happy. It's going to be a busy day, a busy evening, and we are so happy he is back home. Now he has joined another group of friends over, C.J. Howard McGrath, the Chairman of the Democratic National Committee. In just a few moments, we will hear a message from the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman. He will be introduced by Commissioner J. Russell Young. Mr. President, the citizens of Washington today, raise their voices and their arms in warm welcome on your return to the nation's capital. As President of the Board of District Commissioners, and on behalf of the citizens of Washington, and the Central Committee of the Democratic Party of the District of Columbia, it is indeed a distinct honor and great pleasure, on behalf of our entire population, to welcome you on your triumph return. Most of the near-million population of our area, as you noticed on your tour from the depot, were out to greet you and cheer you. This is indeed a great victory celebration. All the walks of life are represented among the population who lined historic Pennsylvania Avenue, and indeed the entire route from Union Station, where you arrived this morning, to the North Portico of the White House, where we now stand. We are standing in the midst of your lovely family, your friends, your colleagues, including our old resident of Washington, Alvin Barclay. The citizens of Washington, regardless of their political affiliations, have joined with the Commissioners and the Democratic Central Committee to welcome you home and wish you happiness and good health and success on your years that you stay with us. Mr. President, I'm very happy to have this honor and extend you the greetings from the people of Washington and the Democratic Central Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. I can't tell you how very much I appreciate this warm and cardinal welcome of the capital city of the greatest nation on earth. It is overwhelming, and it makes a man study and wonder whether he is worthy or can be worthy of the responsibility which has been thrust upon him. I will say to you that I expect to work just as hard as I have the job up to date, do it to the best of my ability, and I'm happy to say that I'll have cooperation and help because we've got one of the greatest vice presidents the country's ever had and a great leader in the Senate and the House. One of the great legislators of all time is the vice president, and that's one of the luckiest things a man can have when he has this tremendous job. I shall look forward to help and cooperation of all the people because we are faced with great issues now which I think we can bring to a successful conclusion. At least we'll do everything in our power to bring them to a successful conclusion. I want to say now that I thank the turnout of the great, many people here in this great capital city. I've been in Mexico City and Rio Gennaro and Ottawa, Canada, in nearly all the capitals of the United States and all its great cities on this last campaign, and no turnout has been better than this one or more enthusiastic, and I can't tell you how much I appreciate it. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, and I'd like now to call on Mr. President of the Senate to say a few words. Mr. President, in the language of Minnie Pearl of the Grand Ole Opry, I'm so glad to be here. It has been a great pleasure for me to be associated with the President in this campaign, and to share with him the cordial welcome from the city of Washington and surrounding country. There is one thing that this election has demonstrated, aside from any partisan or personal victory, and that is that the American people do their own thinking and their own voting on the day of the election. I shall be happy to work with the President to the extent of my ability to make his administration the greatest possible success to advance the welfare of the American people, all of the American people, and to advance the cause of peace, not only at home, but throughout the world. Now that the election is over, and the result has been decisively determined, I hope that all of our people may be united and move forward to the accomplishment of these ends. I thank you very much, Mr. President, and all this great crowd of people. Thank you very much, Mr. President, and all this great crowd of people. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard messages from the President of the United States and Vice President-elect Alvin Barkley, and the applause which greeted his message here today. He is pausing now at the door directly in front of the White House, at the main entrance for pictures. There are many, many photographers here today, and they want pictures of the official party, the President, the Vice President, Mrs. Truman, and daughter Margaret. And while they are snapping these pictures, I see NBC commentator Frank Berkholzer, who has traveled with the President on his campaign, was with him in Kansas City on Election Day and night. And Frank, you've had a busy day. You came back from Kansas City on the train with the President and Vice President-elect. Frank, it's good to see you. Good to see you, John. Welcome back to you, too. What transpired on the train trip, Frank? Well, a little bit of sleep first, John. Uh-huh. Everybody needed that, including the President. Certainly. And then a very quiet kind of celebration, not the kind of throwing your hat in the air that you might expect, but a quiet kind of grateful celebration of the President. He's that way, you know. Yes. Frank, I might say that that seems to be the same picture here, that the crowd is warm, enthusiastic, it's orderly, and it's coming from the heart. I might say, John, that in this parade that just ended here at the White House, I noticed for the first time that I can remember in the campaign, the President rode in the same car with his wife and daughter Margaret. Yes, I... Family homecoming, and they came home together. I see. That's wonderful, wonderful. On the way back, he spent a good part of the day reading telegrams. He got some 7,000 or 8,000 telegrams, a congratulations. Whenever he had a few spare moments on this train, he picked up a handful of telegrams. Frank, what, do you know anything about the President's agenda for the remainder of the day? You have just heard an address from Washington, D.C. by the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman, and the Vice President-elect, Albin Barkley. We now return you to WNYC for the regularly scheduled programs. This is New York City's own station, WNYC and WNYC-FM. Bill Green of the AFL, President of the AFL, is here, and also George Meany. Both of them had quite a part, as according to Senator McGrath in his victory statement the other day, Labor was chiefly responsible for the Democratic victory. I haven't seen so far any representative of the CIO, but possibly Jack Kroll of the CIO PAC is on board. The band has started up again. General Hershey is one of those that went aboard. Admiral Leahy, General Vaughn. And the only representative I've seen so far of the State Department is Robert Lovett, the Under Secretary of State. Leslie Biffle, who is the liaison between the White House and the Senate, is aboard. And Senator McKillor, and countless other prominent Democrats and their families. In just a moment I want to interview Bryson Rash, who has been aboard the Presidential Special, and who has just returned from the Triumphs in Kansas City at the Mule Bach. Bryson, tell us a little about that Mule Bach episode. You mean that night at the election night? Yeah. Oh, it's a fantastic thing. People were, early in the evening, along about 9 or 10 o'clock, why people said, well, he's got a little lead, we don't know what's going to happen. There was this intense air of suppressed excitement. They didn't want to go out yet. I mean, they say, look, we're in. We won by 9 or 10 o'clock. By 11 o'clock it looked pretty good. But then the long, long, night-long battle with the seesaw back and forth. With Denver, with always enough precincts, there are always enough voting districts, there are always enough wards still out to change that election. And then, finally, at 11.15 in the morning, the telegram conceding the election came from Governor Dewey. Well, what happened then? Well, I think the roof of the Mule Bach Hotel went up about one foot at that point. And there was an immense cheering and an immense sudden spurt of excitement at that point. There were yells, cheers, and everything else. And people made one great big long search down a long, long haul, at the end of which was the door to President Truman Swate. Right through the door, and congratulations to the very natty, smiling little man in the dark blue suit. It was a magnificent spectacle. India Edwards of the Democratic National Committee, just a lot of times, say hello. It was a magnificent thing when those people surged through that door to say, Hello, Attorney General Barton. Would you like to say a word? Thank you, I'm congratulating. How about a word from Attorney General Tom Clark? Well, it's good to be on the program with a fellow Texan, the one I went to school with, Jack Bell. I've been listening to you over the radio, though. Are you feeling any pain, Tom? None, whatever. None, whatever. The people have given me really such a boost that it's great, just by electing Mr. Truman. You're making good on your prediction that you would still be Attorney General. Yes, sir. I'd still be Attorney General. Well, thanks very much. Thank you very much, General. I have you with the Secretary of Ag, Coach Mr. Brannon. How are you? Good morning. How do you feel about this election, sir? Oh, I feel wonderful. As everybody else does, it was really a one-man show and he did a marvelous job. It was a grand show. It really was. This is Ambassador Bay from Norway. This is the most thrilling moment I've seen in more than four years. There's nothing like it. You all ought to be here. We're all to be mutually congratulated on this great, wonderful victory. And here is Secretary Krug. Will you say a few words, Secretary? I'd be delighted. I think this pays off on the fighting spirit of the President. We'll have that fight for another four years. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. And here is Secretary Forrestal. Whatever Mr. Krug says, I'll double. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Another cabinet member out here. Secretary Royal, would you care to say a few words? Ms. Royal and I and the entire staff of the Department of the Army are down here to greet our great President at the beginning of his four-year turn. Thank you very much, Secretary Royal. Well, there's really more excitement around here than I've ever seen. They're still going up on the platform and still shaking hands. I don't know where in the world they're all finding space inside the Ferdinand Magellan. They must be four cars up by now. At least 250 people have gone aboard. I see Olin Johnson now and I want to catch his expression as he shakes hands with the President and the expression of the President as well. There's a slight reserve, I would say, in the President's greeting. He is a bit on the tepid side. He is not slapping him on the back exactly. And there goes Admiral Leahy, his aide and... Pardon me. What is Admiral Leahy's correct title? Chief of Staff to the Commander-in-Chief. Chief of Staff to the Commander-in-Chief. That's his correct title. A lot of people have started to leave and file by. If we can get any more interviews for you, we will in just a moment. In the meantime, I'd like to ask Bryson Rash a few more questions. Go ahead, Jack. Where were you, Bryson, when we tried to contact you around 12 or 1 o'clock at the mule box the other day? You made a switch to be at all, you got room noise? We got plenty of room noise, a lot of fun. I had put the mic down on a little table just inside the door to go back and get a signal, get a cue sheet, you see? I see. And by the time I tried to get back to that microphone, I couldn't get back to the microphone. Too big a crowd, huh? Just too many people there. Just too many people, that was all. Well, coming back through the countryside, what kind of greeting did the President have? He's had a tremendous greeting coming back here. As a matter of fact, it's sort of a psychology of the champ. The champ, the hero, actually. It's almost on the bobby sock side. That was true in Cincinnati. It was true in St. Louis. And he's had bands play for him when he comes into a town. A great deal of greetings, delegations. He's had little gifts. It's been an amazing thing. But actually, the hilarity, for example, on the train has not been too great because, one thing, everybody is just so completely bone-dead tired on this train. And another thing, of course, is the fact that the President himself has set the pace on this by saying, I am overwhelmed with the responsibility. I am not overjoyed with the, with the, I'm not elated with the result. I am overwhelmed with the responsibility. And it's, he set a tone of, of suppressed, of let's take this thing soberly. We have a great deal of work ahead, a great responsibility. Has he gone out on the back end and greeted the crowds as they come through? Oh, yeah. At what places, for example? Well, he went out on the back platform in St. Louis. He went back in the flat, according to the back platform at, at Vincennes, Indiana, and several other places. But just a minute, I've got John Steele in here. Hello, John. How are you? Well, hello, Bryson. Glad to see you home. Thank you very much. How are you? Oh, fine. Where were you on Tuesday night, huh? Tuesday night? Yeah. Well, I was in two or three places, but I never was away from the radio or the television over two minutes at a time. How did you, what do you think of the result of that election? Well, it's a great thing for America. Thank you very much. That was Mr. John Steelman, the assistant to the president. Jack? I'd like to ask this question. Was there anybody on the train that you could confidently say believes that the president would win, beside the president himself? Yes. Matt Connolly, the president's secretary, thought he was going to win. Matt Connolly actually did, huh? Yes. Yes. Matt thought he could win. Bill Boyle of the Democratic National Committee thought he could win. I think others thought he could win, but not everybody, certainly. Admiral Lee, would you care to say a few words over ABC, sir? I thought it was not. That's all right, Admiral. I understand your position. There were a few on the train. I mean, Matt Connolly thought so. Bill Boyle, the president of the United States. I'm sure that Mrs. Truman and Margaret thought he could win. I think that perhaps Charlie Ross thought he could win. But there was certainly, it was one of the things that the close people, the people extremely close to him thought he could win. But when he got about two degrees removed, they were hoping he could win, I think. I think that's about the degree of it. Well, there wasn't any flat statements by anybody that you heard, outside of maybe the president himself, was there? Matt Connolly told me in New York City, at Harlem, when we were up there at that particular... Pardon me. General Hershey, would you say a few words? What is this? This is ABC. Well, we're down here in this big crowd, and I think probably that everybody around here is pretty happy by the looks. I wouldn't be surprised. Thank you, General Hershey. Where were we, Bryce? We were up in Harlem, talking with Matt Connolly. On the New York trip, we were in Harlem, and I went to Matt and asked him, I said, Matt, do you think you can win now? And Connolly said, we will win. I said, how do you figure that? And the sounding map, he said, we will win by carrying Ohio, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, and California. Well, did he miss any? No, not a one. Not a one. Well, I understand there was a fellow in the agriculture department named Bean. Oh, yeah. Extraordinarily enough, that had it statistically figured out right on the nose. But nobody believed him. I understand so. I didn't talk with him. I didn't see much of the story. As you well know on campaign trains, Jack, you never get an opportunity to read a paper, a news magazine, or anything else. Was there any incident on the way back that you think of particularly? Uh, let's see. Well, the St. Rose crowd was an immense thing. The president, uh, uh, the Union Station is similar to this one, in that you can block off a crowd. The president came out and he saw this immense crowd and he said, come on through. And he let the people in. And then he stood on the back platform with the, with the, uh, that, uh, copy of the first edition of the Chicago Tribune that hit the street with a great big headline, uh, Dewey beats Truman. Remember that one? And the crowd roared. Yes. Oh, the president's taken off his top coat. Oh, it's gotten a little warm around the station. He's taken off his top coat, taken off his hat. And there's Bill Hassett, his old secretary, coming up to greet him. One of the nicest, most erudite, wonderful men I know. Bill Hassett, he's been sick in the hospital recently. I haven't seen much of him. They seem to be coming, uh, off the train, uh, three cars up now. I'm filtering back. Uh, a great reception is awaiting the president. Uh, the streets of Washington are aligned. There he is shaking hands with himself. He's about to say a few words. I don't know whether you can hear anything or not. There's no, he's just making the motion of shaking hands. And he's quitting somebody in the crowd by pointing at them. Just a moment. Here's Bryson. And now the president is upholding the hand of Alvin Barkley in the traditional priors-ring manner. And the flashlights are going off with bangs and explosions of light. And it looks as though he's about to get ready to get off the train. They're again saluting the crowd with the old priors-ring gesture. Somebody hollered the Homburg. Don't forget the Homburg. The president is spoofing the crowd back and pointing to Barkley. And he's saying they switched hats. They got, each got the wrong hat. That's the same thing. Jack Bell reporting from Union Station in Washington. We take you now to Hollywood, joining Kay Kaiser's College of Fun and Knowledge, now in progress. And now in progress.