Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In eight weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand, in cooperation with the National Safety Council, presents a transcribed discussion of the subject, Accidents, Childhood's Greatest Health Hazard. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the role of education and protection in preventing accidents to our children. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Harry F. Dietrich, attending physician at Children's Hospital in Los Angeles. Harold C. Hunt, General Superintendent of the Chicago Public Schools. Dr. Rustin McIntosh, Professor of Pediatrics at Columbia University. In this country, we are told that about 13,000 to 14,000 children under 15 are killed by accidents each year. This is about a third of all child deaths in America. In other words, accidents are the principal cause of death among our children. Now to start this discussion, gentlemen, how do you regard this record of fatalities? Is it good or bad, Hunt? Well surely one cannot help but view with a considerable amount of concern. A condition that each year takes the toll of so many lives among the children of our nation. Is it a growing problem, Dietrich? Have we had more child deaths over in recent years than we used to have? What's the measure of the problem over a period of two or three decades? Actually, the number of deaths related to population have not increased, but they also have not decreased. And during this same time, our overall death rate in children has declined very rapidly due to the many advances made in medicine. So that accidents now have become proportionately much more important than they were 10, 20, or 40 years ago. McIntosh, we have the feeling that doctors are not as interested in accidents as they should be. Their attention has been in the past greatly concerned with the control of infection. Now they've had a very good record on that. They've lowered childhood mortality and brought accidents out into the foreground as our number one problem. And we think they should develop increasing concern over that. I think it might be stressed that in every single year except the first, accidents are the number one killer of children. In discussing this problem of accidents of children, are you primarily concerned, Dr. Geek, with deaths or injuries? These statistics I just gave, appalling as they are, were dealt almost wholly with mortality. Fatal accidents. We have no accurate figures on the number of children permanently injured or even seriously injured temporarily. It must, however, be a very large number. Someone once remarked that we can tell in each of our counties how many animals are rabid, how many gophers have rabies. There are census figures on that. We have no figures on our children as to how many are permanently injured. Well, an estimate was made on the basis of a study in Massachusetts over a limited period of time showing that for every fatal accident that occurred in a home, there were 150 disabling accidents to go along with that. Now that's an approximation. That doesn't even measure the number of non-disabling less important accidents. In the same study to which Dr. McIntosh refers, it was also brought out that four of those accidents resulted in permanent disability. Four out of five. Four resulted in permanent disability. Four for every one of the killed. Yes. This might be a good time to break down these statistics on accidents which, as has already been indicated, take almost 14,000 lives annually. We find according to figures recently released by the National Safety Council that motor vehicle fatalities head the list and they're accountable for about 3,500 deaths among children annually. Nearly two thirds of these occur within the five years and over group which, of course, is to be expected. Now, burn, scrawls, and explosions which account for the second largest listing amount to about 2,700. And here, interestingly enough, two thirds of these deaths occur in the group under five years of age. Drownings are the third largest classification. They account for annually about 2,300 deaths. Approximately 60% are children over the age of five. Falls, accounting for 900, are a substantial listing. Slightly more than half of these fatal falls involve children under five. Firearms take the toll of about 600 and poisons about 600 deaths annually. And the last classification, railroad accidents, which account for the loss of life of about 300 children each year. Now, these figures Dr. Hunt has just given us are very important in pointing the way in a general sense to the magnitude of the problem. But when we come to the question of how to prevent accidents, we're going to have to break these figures down separately. It seems to me that what we want to know, and it's very important to learn, is what accidents a child is apt to be subjected to at different ages. We know, for instance, that an infant under one year of age doesn't have to be involved in a firearm accident. We should make a study of the accident problem. At least, Doctor, he won't be holding the gun. That's right. That's right. You're making a plea to localize the accident and then determine responsibility, are you not, Dr. McIntosh? That's right. We want to know what the problem is, and the important thing for the medical profession is that you don't learn about the accident problem merely from studying the fatal cases, or even the disabling cases. You've got to study all accidents. What kind of accidents do these younger children face, primarily? I think Hunt referred to that in giving these facts. What kind of cases do you meet in the hospital? What do you mean by younger children? I mean youngsters one, two, three years old. Well, now let's take infants under one year of age. Most of their injuries result from falls, although other kinds may come in too. They may be burned by having boiling water spilled over them, other things of that kind. They may be strangled by accidentally getting wrapped up in a rope or something of the kind. But falls are their main type of injury. Then you get into the next age group, and you begin to bring in other kinds of accidents, other risks that the child may be subjected to. For instance, it's well known that after a child gets to walking around, running around the house, then he can pull electric light plugs. He can pull things down from a high table and spill them on himself. He can also pick up poison that's been left around supposedly to kill rats. He can get into a much greater variety of troubles than a younger child. I think Dr. McIntosh has indirectly pointed out a very important fact, and that is that a child's accidents are related to his developmental abilities and interests. And this, of course, must enter very definitely into any attempted solution we have for the problem. Do you think that certain children are more prone to accidents than others, Dietrich? That's a very difficult question to answer. Fortunately, you said do you think and not do you know. I think that there probably are some children who, for a variety of reasons, get into more accidents than others. Sometimes, as Dr. McIntosh has suggested, this is pure adventures. Other times, I think they actually do have a psychological problem behind it. And I'd like to hear what Dr. McIntosh has to say about that. Well, I rather object to the application of the term accident proneness in the sense that it's used for adults in industry, adults who drive motor cars. The application of that term to children, because I don't think we know enough about the problem. Now, we all agree that some children have more accidents than others. But is that bad luck or bad judgment, bad parental control? What is it? If a boy goes out and picks a fight with every child he sees on the street, of course, he's going to have a large number of children. But is he accident prone? Well, maybe he's just scrappy. Or he may have some other quality, which I think isn't accurately described by calling it accident prone. Well, I'm interested to know how that behavior pattern develops. Well, that's one of the things we have to look into. And I think that's one of the fundamental fields of research in this whole question of accident prevention. We have to know the developmental sequences of child growth and learn in that way how they get into trouble and how they can keep out of trouble. I don't think there will be any better place to interject the thought that safe conduct is a form of behavior. And I think in partial answer to Mr. Hunt's question, this behavior, like any other, is shaped by the child's parents and his environment and a great many factors. I don't think you can divorce the question of accidents from any other behavior pattern of the child. Well, in other words, excuse me, in other words, at a certain age of an infant or child, you would put the entire blame for his accident on the parent. At a later age, he begins to share the blame, and finally he takes the whole blame, or at least the major portion of it. Now, that's a sequence that we need to study and follow. I'm sure Dr. Dietrich has some very definite ideas on that. Well, aren't we trying to say that the approach to the ultimate solution of this problem must be geared into a cooperative pattern in which every factor and every personality involved must express the nature of concern with it? The parent, the doctor, and the child, the environment in which the accident occurs, are all focal points. Are they not, to the overall evaluation of the problem? That's quite true, and I think we're unconsciously edging up now on the question of how can we prevent accidents. And seeing we are discussing the child and the parent, suppose we consider that for a moment. I think that it's quite obvious if the infant under one year of age is going to be burned, drowned, crushed, mangled, or poisoned, it's because someone has denied him the protection to which he's entitled. In other words, from birth up until the time the child begins to walk, accident prevention is really quite simple. It's a question of 100% protection against the serious hazards. If you skip over a few years and look ahead, you'll discover there's coming a time at around five or six years of age when this child is going to be away from the physical influence of his parents. He's going to school. He's going to play. And this is going to take him away from all the protective devices that the parent has set up. And he's going to take with him only the things that he has learned. So that shortly after one year of age and increasing very rapidly, there has to be introduced a large segment of education which supplants a good deal of the protection. Now that brings into the discussion the role the pediatrician plays, and I'd like to point out some of the things that he has to do in considering this problem. Now he has to size up the situation both as regards the developing infant and the parents, and the parents' responsibility to the child. He begins quite early by explaining to the mother the various tricks she must know in order to avoid having this child fall. For instance, even an infant at one month of age, if left on a bed, a full-sized adult bed, can squirm and kick himself until he falls off that bed. Well, if he falls on his head on a hard floor, serious trouble may come from it. In other words, the pediatrician can begin to tell her about that kind of hazard. As the child gets older, there are other hazards that he must inform her about, and he should prepare himself for the definite schedule so that he can anticipate trouble, rather than mentioning it after the horse has been stolen, so to speak. Do you think pediatricians generally assume that kind of responsibility, Doctor? Oh, definitely, definitely. But I think that it's been done on an individual basis. I don't think we have yet pooled our results in order to map out the best possible program. I think there's a great opportunity there, and a responsibility that definitely rests on the pediatrician. We seem to be developing this problem chronologically. We have concerned ourselves with the role of the parent, particularly as it involves the child under the age of five, with the contributing influence of the pediatrician. Beyond the age of five, the child, of course, becomes the concern of the school. Can I interrupt one moment, Mr. Hunt, because I have to warn you that we're going back to that early age period a little later. There are some important factors that we haven't covered, but we do want to hear now about the older child. Very good. As the child comes into this school environment, this enlarged area of interest, to which you already have made reference, Doctor Dietrich, comes into consideration. And he is concerned not only with himself, but he is concerned with his playmates and his associates in the classroom. Not only in the classroom, but out in the school yard, in the gymnasium, in the auditorium, on his way to and from school. The teacher has to build up an awareness of safety factors, that those factors may contribute to the self-preservation of the child. And increasingly, as maturity develops, the role of the individual, both as an individual and in relationship to the social order of which he is a part, becomes increasingly manifest. So that by the time the child gets through school, and we are skipping over this too rapidly, ultimately there is ahead of him the parenthood, which in turn develops and furtheres this cycle about which we're talking. You wanted to say more about the role of the pediatrician? Yes, I think that one of the reasons that we have somewhat ignored this problem of accidents, and another reason why parents are so prone to think it's just impossible of solution, is that there are so many facets. And I would like to try to emphasize that I believe this relationship between protection and education is a practical one that can be applied in the home. I think if we can convince parents that they can actually do this, then I think we're well on the way to the solution. And of course there are a number of ways in which they can apply it. For the moment, and I know Dr. McIntosh wants to say something, I'd simply like to say that the tools necessary for applying this idea, for transferring it from paper to the home, are that the parent must have some forethought, must use some time, and of course must have some discipline in the home. Now you make a distinction between protection and education. What is that distinction? What do you have in mind there? Well, I think perhaps we could best give that simply by example. If we consider an infant of say 18 months of age, who's able to toddle around the house, who we know is going to explore everything that it can possibly reach, and that reach is going to be ever-growing, we want to teach that child, for instance, some concepts about non-edibility. We must expose him to situations in which he can learn, and a reasonable one to me seems to be to leave a cup of vinegar, or a jar of very hot mustard, or even perhaps some red pepper, where he can get into it, taste it, discover that not everything is edible. Now this should be done objectively. You want him to learn the hard way. We want him to learn the hard way. At the same time, that's education. We must protect him by locking up our poisons, our caustic substances, and things which can cause him serious damage. Well, I'd like to cite another example in that general field of the value of learning by doing, and learning by making mistakes. The instinct for climbing is a very fundamental one. Any child between the ages of 10 months and, say, 18 months, will begin to want to go upstairs, and an older child will begin to want to climb with the aid of his hands. Well, maybe in the old days when he was out where there were lots of trees, he could learn this game by climbing trees. In the city, that's not very easy, and his first experiments with climbing may be a rather serious one. Now, to offset that, some wonderful person, whose name I unfortunately don't know, invented the Jungle Gym. In my mind, the Jungle Gym is one of the really important inventions of our time, in educational equipment. A child can learn to climb using hands and feet, and be safe. He'll fall, but he won't seriously hurt himself, and he learns a great deal out of that experience. Now, I think we need to apply that kind of educational technique to a whole variety of risks that a child is subject to. Can we summarize that line of thinking in saying that, while we want to avoid the serious and the crippling accidents, we recognize that a child has to learn in minor painful ways. How does discipline enter into this program of education and protection you're talking about, Doctor? Well, I hate to limit it just to education and protection, because I think it enters into everything the child does. Due to an unfortunate misinterpretation of modern psychological and psychoanalytic thinking, many children have been deprived of the physical and the emotional security that comes from mild, consistent, logical discipline. Discipline is just as necessary for a child's happiness as it is for his life, and I might just cite the one example of a disciplined child and an undisciplined child. This child steps on the edge of the curbing, looks around, is obviously about to step off. One mother says, don't, and the child doesn't. The other mother says, don't, and the child does. Now, the discipline is the difference in the two. One has been disciplined to know that when the mother gives him instructions, they usually are about important things and that he better pay attention to them. Well, that's, there's a large area there where discipline is unavoidable, and that's the area where the tools you're dealing with, like fast-moving automobiles, firearms, other dangerous weapons. You can't, there are no halfway measures. You have to have discipline in order to avoid fatal accidents. Now, as a school man, do you go along with this concept of discipline, Dr. Hunt? It represents good educational psychology, I feel. And the implications for us in the field of education are manifest. Our concern in the shops, our concern in the laboratories, our concern, well, in such routine matters, is going to and from school, learning how to cross at intersections, learning to cross with the green light rather than against the red light. The care with which one approaches crossing the street, looking up and down, all of those things involve discipline. And surely there is only one effective way, and that is through discipline. Yes, I, I, in complete agreement. But I'm sure Mr. Hunt means that the goal is self-discipline, that we are not stressing discipline imposed from above, discipline trained in the child. You want to make him proud to have a safe record in school and in other, every other aspect of his life. You know, do you think there's such a thing, a gentleman, as making children and parents too conscious of, of accidents? So, throwing a, a wall of protection around them that's, that's really unhealthy. How about that, D.C.? Well, I think that you, there are two thoughts in the question that you asked. If you recall, we suggested that the role of protection has to be a steadily diminishing one after a year of age and must be supplanted by education. Now, if you take that literally, edgy, education doesn't make people fearful. Over protection may. There's no child who is so vulnerable to accidents as a child who's had too much protection. And that's why I say that you must have this ever-growing segment of education entering into his experience. And then I don't think you'll have over-emphasis in the sense of causing fear at all. Well, we're concerned with self-reliance on the part of the child, are we not? That's right. Well, we're also concerned with parent education. Uh, if a parent worries too much over the accident problem, without getting sound advice, without getting practical suggestions as, as to how to avoid accidents, then, uh, uh, that parent's child is going to be, uh, a candidate for trouble, it seems to me. Well, another good, uh, plea there for self-reliance on the part of the child, because to the extent the child can develop that, then, uh, he doesn't have to worry about these phobias that, uh, may be produced, uh, by the parent. Well, uh, it's easy to say that, but it's also unfortunately true that it's just the fearful parent who is most reluctant to, uh, permit the education of the child in a proper, uh, at a proper rate and in a proper sequence. That, uh, why I like, that's why I like character building programs such as, uh, those of the Boy Scouts and the Girl Scouts that, uh, that teach this self-discipline and this self-reliance on the part of our growing children. Well, don't you think the tendency on the part of the really careful parent, uh, is to deny the child, uh, activities, activities too, which, uh, might involve him in, in, in an accident. You prevent your child from going near the, the water. You prevent him from doing this interesting thing or that, or that interesting thing that he might like to do, prepare that he'll be involved in some of these crippling accidents you're, you're talking about. And you, you may get, as a result, a, a frustrated youngster on your hands. They're of tremendous educational value. If, on the other hand, the parent attempts to polis the child's pain with a lot of emotional display or with stuffing its stomach with sweets, then they completely rob the child of the benefit of that education. Well, may we include the teacher within that classification because there's tremendous, uh, educational principle involved in that relationship. It seems to me that this whole problem has to be individualized as far as the child is concerned. A question that's often asked is, uh, uh, at what age, uh, would it be proper to give a, a 22 rifle to a boy? Well, it seems to me it's not a question of age. It's a question of that boy's personality, his, uh, carefulness with other things than guns, uh, what he does with toy guns. If he's still, uh, aiming toy guns at people and making a noise like a sawed-off shotgun, uh, he's not yet ready for his 22. In other words, it's got to be studied on an individual basis. And also, if that same parent who's going to give it is the type of parent who says, I wish you wouldn't point that at somebody and then walks away. Instead of taking the gun away from the child for a week, uh, you're in trouble too. Now, in the statistics that were introduced earlier here, uh, traffic, uh, deaths in traffic accidents loomed rather largely as I, as I remember it. The very first, it's the very first listing among the fatalities. Now, does that come from youngsters operating automobiles, I wonder? I suppose that is a factor, don't you? Well, in any event, what is your attitude toward the operation of automobiles by children, shall we say? Youngsters? Now, here in Illinois, they can operate a car when they're 15 years old. Am I right in that? Yes, and isn't it, uh, reasonable to expect that in this motor age, that, uh, practically every girl and boy, uh, ultimately is, uh, going to, uh, operate a motor vehicle? We have somewhat, uh, I don't know how many millions of cars we have on the, on the roads today, millions and millions, and, uh, different states have different laws. Again, the responsibility, it seems to me, jointly on the part of the home and the school. Uh, Dr. McIntosh, uh, concerned himself a moment ago with the area of responsibility as it relates to the use of firearms. Well, we just can't say that because a child is 15 or 16 or 17, he, he has all of the innate characteristics and the abilities to drive a motor car. There has to, there has to come an element of training and experience and, again, of self-discipline. Here, uh, again, is a cooperative, uh, expression of responsibility. Some schools are developing programs of, uh, of, of driver education behind the wheel, actual instruction in, in driving motor cars. Again, I like to think of it as a joint responsibility that attaches to the, to the home and to the school. You asked the question earlier whether these motor accidents were due to child drivers. Now, that points up, uh, uh, the ignorance in which we now stand as to the data of this whole field. I don't think the answer to that question can be given, but I do think that we need to study the accident problem, the genesis, the origin of accidents, and find out what the factors involved are. Now, if it turned out that a large proportion of childhood accidents, uh, from motors were due to child drivers, then, uh, litigation might be the answer. But I think you may find that the, uh, the responsible factor is someone else. There's a phrase I like, and I hope it isn't just because I wrote it, but I think it applies to this whole accident field, and that is that children should be prepared for rather than protected from the ordinary risks of living. That's a good phrase. I'm, I'm, I was interested, though, in, in what, uh, Dr. Hunt had to say about, uh, youngsters operating automobiles. Now, in the state in which I live, Illinois, they, uh, they can legally operate an automobile if they can get a license when they're, uh, 15 years old. You suggest that some youngsters are able to operate a car at 15, others aren't sufficiently, uh, mature. Uh, uh, uh, maybe even at 16 or, or 17. But parents are under terrific pressure, gentlemen, believe me. There's no question about it. When they, uh, achieve the ripe old age of 15 to start operating automobiles. And what, what are we as parents going to, to tell these youngsters? Well, surely we must tell them of the responsibility that attaches to, to that privilege. It's an obligation that is involved. And, and the parent, uh, has a very definite responsibility in making that clear before that car is turned over to the child. Uh, we've been talking, uh, throughout the discussion about, uh, uh, uh, the prevention of accidents. Now, what are we doing to, to help children in our clinics and hospitals that are, are, are suffering from, uh, crippling accidents? Have we made much progress there, Doctor? Oh, definitely. We've made very conspicuous progress in the care of children who get hurt in a variety of ways. Uh, that's important. But it would be, uh, uh, much better if we could prevent the accidents rather than treat them after they've occurred. Well, that certainly has been our emphasis throughout this discussion. Now, I want to, uh, thank you, uh, uh, doctors for, uh, constructive discussion of what I think is a very important problem. You seem to regard the problem as serious, certainly, and one which is, uh, amenable to the, uh, kind of, uh, constructive program you have been describing here. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Accidents, Childhood's Greatest Health Hazard. Copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Guests today, Dr. Harry F. Dietrich, Harold C. Hunt, and Dr. Rustin McIntosh. Next week, the reviewing stand presents a discussion of a question, Can we curb our subversives without losing our freedoms? Our guest will be Nathaniel L. Nathanson, Professor of Law, Paul Van Ripper, Assistant Professor of Political Science, both at Northwestern University, and the Honorable Senator Patrick A. McCarron of Nevada. We invite you to listen next week for a debate on the question, Can we curb subversives without losing our freedoms? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The is the Land of Things puzzle, and the