I am an American. Good afternoon. From the mall in Central Park, your city station brings you the opening ceremonies of Citizenship Week. Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri will be our principal speaker this afternoon, and many prominent artists of stage, screen, radio, and television are here to participate in the ceremonies. Your city station will bring you the complete program of this Mayor's Day ceremony until 4.30 this afternoon. There are about 70,000 witnesses to this spectacle here in the park, and here now is our Master of Ceremonies, James Sauter, Chairman of the Mayor's Entertainment Committee. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen assembled here in Central Park on the Mall. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of our radio audience on WNYC. Let me say this to you who are at home, that we are promised a very, very wonderful afternoon of weather here in the park, so if you are worried about the weather, come out here. We guarantee you against the elements. Well, partly guarantee you. We are going to open our program today. Today is both Citizenship Day, the carryover of I Am an American Day, and also an important day in American history, because 138 years ago today, Francis Scott Key at Baltimore, Maryland, wrote the Star Spangled Banner. And nothing could be more appropriate than that this afternoon we begin our program with the combined bands of the police department, the fire department, and the sanitation department, led by George Bregel, and to sing our national anthem, the young lady who has sung it more often than anyone in history, our own Miss Lucy Monroe. Will you all please join me and let's all sing together? Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight Are the ramparts we watched, Where so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Radio de sprinting and right The sound of the нажmears A little bit, In the flashing stand of the VolkshoEN Slymaiden And the bombs bursting in air Moreeluia, who loved itived in the network yet In the limparts we watched, In the chirping extras, Ohh and others Franch为什么 Before which became, hey glory are sweet, When the fear of the land of the allergulists In what kind the world has gone on Sal Además of the land of the fargame In the rivalry that his mother managed by the 페 On and left the感玩ijainks hakkfully there In her disaster, fight in the snow effect The great fight, but am I am sorry, And the home of the brave. Thank you. Here's your name. And now the invocation for this memorable service will be given by the very Reverend Father Robert I. Gannon of the Society of Jesus, representing His Eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman. O God, of whose mercies there is no number, and of whose goodness the treasure is infinite, we thank thee for all thy many blessings, but especially today for our citizenship in the beloved United States of America. We beseech thee that as thou grantest the petitions of those who pray, thou wouldst prepare us to use the gifts of democracy with such wisdom and moderation that all the world will seek to imitate the reverence we have for the dignity of man. And for thee, almighty God, as its only true source. Amen. And now it is my very distinct honor to present to you the chairman of this first Citizens' Day ceremony in Central Park. The President of the United States of America. All of you know him so well that there is nothing to say other than that he is a great statesman, a great humanitarian, a great civic leader, and a very great American. Our own and very beloved Jim Farley, the Honorable James A. Farley. Mr. Sauter, Mr. Mayor, Judge Ryan, distinguished clergymen, distinguished military leaders who are here, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. My very good friend Jim Sauter referred to me as a great statesman. A great statesman is construed to be a dead politician, and I don't like to be placed in that category. I consider it a great honor and a privilege to greet you here on Citizenship Day. The very words, I am an ordinary citizen, carry with them a connotation that is unmistakable to all the world. For it is a clarion call to free people everywhere that our way of life is part and parcel of a philosophy that was laid down by the Founding Fathers and from which we shall never depart. In a world tormented by doubts and fears, it is stimulating and refreshing to know that there are gathered here men and women of all faiths and creeds who proclaim with pride their experience in being Americans. Americanism in its truest sense is not confined to those who were born in this country for it represents the flowering of the ideal that all men are created free and equal and endowed with certain inalienable rights by their creator. There reside in this city people of many racial strains, national origin and religious faith. thousands have come from distant shores to find a haven. They are imbued with a sense of the dignity that man seeks and wants to maintain. Their children who were born here have not only learned from their teachers in the schools and colleges, what a wonderful country we are living in, but in their foreign-born parents, have entered into the spirit that animated the founders of this nation. From one section of this city, not more than two or three miles from where I stand, there are two million people representing 24 different nationalities. They live together in harmony. They love their country with genuine affection. An affection that is rooted in gratitude and a willingness to be useful citizens and good neighbors. So today we have gathered to reaffirm our faith in the only form of society that decent men must have in order to live out their days as dignified human beings. We know that we are a nation where tyranny cannot thrive because in the fabric of our country there are woven the principles of brotherhood, compassion and deep understanding. We know that we can worship in accordance with our conscience. Our faith in God is one of the symbols of a free America. We know that we do not have to offer excuses for our actions, so long as they do not interfere with the rights of our neighbors and the welfare of the entire community. We are not told how to vote, and we can belong to any political party we choose. We are not forced to join any particular political party. We have a free hand and a free mind. In the recorded history of our country, we have never failed to respect our obligations to society and to recognize our duties as citizens. So today we meet in the spirit of exaltation, knowing that in the phrase, I am an American, is a challenge to those who would infiltrate our institutions and cast dispersions to devious methods on our principles and our convictions. They shall not succeed, for within our hearts there shall remain always keep running that refrain. I love thy rocks and rills, thy woods and templed hills. We are all Americans, thank God. I shall now turn this program back to Mr. Sauter, but before doing, may I express my heartiest congratulations to everyone who in any way participated in this program, or who will participate in it, those who are responsible for this gathering, Mr. Hurst and everyone connected with his organization, and I am grateful to the thousands of Americans, New Yorkers particularly, who have come here on this very interesting and really worthwhile occasion. And now to go from the first serious part of our program to an entertainment interlude, I have to introduce to you New York's beloved, most beloved humorist and master of ceremonies, our own Harry Hirschfield. Jim Sauter, Mayor Impelet Terry, Chairman James Farley, worthy clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen all. I'm beginning to fear these crowds more and more every year. Law of averages are going to catch up to me. Sooner or later I'll find myself like the fellow who was giving a concert. And he said to the assembled guests, Professor Schnutz is going to be the soloist and I want you all to appreciate him. So Professor Schnutz, entertained, for two hours he knocked off Opus 42 and all that stuff. When he got through, one of the guests walked over to Professor Schnutz and said, Your playing was rotten. So the host was so embarrassed, he turned to Professor Schnutz and said, Pay no attention to him. He doesn't know what he's talking about. He only repeats what other people say. One little story and we'll get the show going. We want it fast and moving because you have a tremendous show. But I want to say this first. I've been in the ploy of the Hearst Service for over 40 years. And for the day I came in the Hearst Service, it didn't have to be drilled into me but it was still the code. America first was Mr. Hearst's idea, was on every banner and every heading and still maintains. And this is what you have here today, Americanism at its best. And I have one little phrase I want to say. We didn't all come over on the same ship. But we're all in the same boat now. And I have to inject just one little story and I mean this then that is the end as far as I'm concerned. It's an old story but it fits so well today because today we switched it from I'm an American day to I'm a citizen day which is synonymous. And it's an old gag but if one hasn't heard it you've got to hear it. But the fellow who came to the politician and said, Every time you ran for election, I campaigned for you. Every time snow, rain or sleet, I campaigned, I spoke for you. Every time you ran for reelection, I voted for you. I voted for you dozens of times. Now you've got to do something for me. I said, what is it? He says, help me get my citizenship papers. A great star. She starred last season in Affairs of State. She just completed the summer circuit starring in Sadie Thompson's role. A great role in Rain. Rain will be started tomorrow night on the Robert Montgomery Show of TV. Regardless of all these little efforts, an effort yet to come on her part, in her own right, a great lady of the stage, Miss June Havoc. Thank you very much, dear ladies and gentlemen. Most distinguished mayor and Mrs. Mayor. Distinguished clergy. Distinguished brass of all sorts and descriptions. Distinguished gentlemen below. Hiya. It's very nice to be here. And this day, of course, is dedicated to love, isn't it? Love of all sorts and all descriptions. All sorts of people have all sorts of love. Some people, little kids love their dogs, love their mums and pops. Some fellers like a best girl. Some girls like a best feller. Some fellers even like their mothers-in-law. But aside from this kind of love, and aside from all the pretty things and the ugly things that have been written about it, I have a favorite poem about love. And I'm going to do that little teeny piece that's my best favorite of the favorite. Would you give me a little pretty music that fits this? This is the Browning poem from one of the famousest love stories in the whole world. How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth, breadth, height my soul can reach When feeling out of sight for the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day's most quiet need By sun and candlelight. I love thee freely as men strive for right. I love thee purely as men turn from praise. I love thee with a passion put to use in my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with a love I seem to lose with my lost saints. I love thee with the breath, smiles, tears of all my life. And if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death. That's about love. And I want you to know that as far as I'm an American, I'm a citizen, all the get-togethers that we Americans have. What we really do when we get together is to demonstrate our love, not only for each other, but for the wonderful, wonderful place we live. Right? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And now the very beautiful soprano with the Metropolitan Opera Company, Miss Lois Hunt. And Miss Hunt will tell you what she's going to sing. We know what she's going to sing, but she's going to tell you again. Lois? Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to sing My Hero from the Chocolate Soldier. I have a true and noble lover. He is my sweetheart, all my own. He is like on earth who shall discover. His heart is mine and mine all my own. He is my sweetheart, all my own. We've pledged our truth each to the other. And for happiness, I pray, our lives belong to one another. Oh, happy, happy wedding day. Oh, happy, happy wedding day. Come, come, come, I love you only. My heart is true. Come, come, my life is lonely. I long for you. Come, come, naught can efface you. My arms are laid. Well Gibran Blow To embrace you, power divine. Come, come, my Lord, hear me. Come, hear me. My heart is true. Come, come, my life is lonely. I long for you. Come, come, naught can efface you. My arms are aching now to embrace you. My heart divine. Come, come, I love you only. Come, my life. Come, my life. Come, my life. And now we have here assembled on our platform one of the most wonderful musical aggregations in the history of broadcasting, the WOR Orchestra. And with the orchestra, some of Mutual Network's greatest singing stars. And to introduce this program to you, I give you one of the great singing stars of the broadcasting business, Jimmy Carroll. Thank you very much, Mr. Sauter. Ladies and gentlemen, it's indeed a great pleasure for me to be here and to be the representative of the Mutual Broadcasting System. We have several very fine acts to present to you, so I won't waste any time. If the Mac Perrin group is ready, I would like to introduce Mac Perrin and his singers singing Alabama Bound with Sylvan Levin conducting. Are you set? Right. Passed up. Passed up. Passed up. Right, are you going to turn it? I'm glad I got over there. I'll open it up. Okay. I'll open it up. Yeah. Alabama Down. Goodbye Blues Birdies are singing every old thing in tune Goodbye Blues Nothing but laughter morning and afternoon Saw a rosebud in a storm So I'm going where there's more Goodbye Blues Troubles are over, I'll be in Clover soon I'm Alabama bound There'll be no DBGBs hanging round Just gave the meanest ticket man on earth All I'm worth To put my tootsies in an upper berth Just hear that choo-choo sound I know that soon we're gonna cover ground And then I'll holler so the world will know Here I go I'm Alabama bound I can hear that choo-choo whistle blow Watch that engine when we start to go Now we're in Baltimore Knockin' on Dixie's door What's that bill? Why, that's Louisville Hey, we've been there before Fields of cotton, tell me where I am Hear that fella yellin' Alabama Mammy, mammy Get your kisses ready for your honey lamp We're goin' south, down south Down south to Alabama Where Alabama he found There'll be no heebie-jeebies hangin' around Just gave the meanest ticket man on earth All I'm worth To put my tootsies in an upper berth Just hear that choo-choo sound I know that soon we're gonna cover ground And then I'll holler so the world will know Here I go I'm Alabama bound Thank you so much for Mac Perrin and his singers And now Mr. Sylvan Levin on my left here Are you gonna be on my left, Sylvan, or my right? I'll stay right here now Mr. Sylvan Levin and the orchestra, the Mutual Broadcasting System orchestra with the Chit Chat Poker by Strauss I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back I'll be right back Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Eugene. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To one who'll watch over me Although he may not be the man Some girls think of as handsome But to my heart he carries the king Won't you tell him please to put on some speed Follow my lead all how I need Someone to watch over me Although he may not be the man Some girls think of as handsome But to my heart he carries the king Won't you tell him please to put on some speed Follow my lead all how I need Someone to watch over me Thank you, Eugenie. Well done. Now I see on my list they have Jimmy Carroll solo. Well, I didn't know what to sing, so I'm going to sing Victor Herbert's great song, Thine Alone. Hope you like it. Tell me why is there a doubt within your heart My own, tell me why Why? But fear the time has come when we must part Alas, I should die Heaven more, by day, by night I dream of thee, my darling My heart is but thine Thine alone Thine alone In thine arms Enfold me, my beloved Let thine eyes look fondly into mine For thy love bears a spell All too wondrous to tell Tis the rapture that's all divine So within Thy tender arms enfold me For thy loss, the world could not atone Beloved, I swear that I will be true And forever Thine alone Thine alone Thank you very much I forgot to mention that was Emerson Buckley conducting Next we have the very lovely and talented Gene Ty Assisted by the Mac Perrin singers in Hallelujah Do you mind Actually, I want to... Sing hallelujah, hallelujah, and you'll shoo the blues away. Hallelujah. Sing hallelujah, cares pursue you, get you through the darkest days. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Say to lies awake and create blue skies of gray. But hallelujah, hallelujah, and you'll shoo the blues away. I'm recalling days when I was small in light and gay jubilee days. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Old folks praying, everybody swaying. Loudly I chanted my praise. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. How I sang about the judgment morn and of Gabriel tooting on his horn. Hallelujah. In that sunny land of milk and honey. I had no complaints while I thought of saints. So I say to all who feel for one. Sing hallelujah, hallelujah, and you'll shoo the blues away. And you'll shoo the blues away. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Get you through the darkest day. Say to lies awake and create and the skies of gray. Sing hallelujah, hallelujah, and you'll shoo the blues away. Sing hallelujah, hallelujah, and you'll shoo the blues away. Say to youth away, hallelujah, hallelujah, ś or hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah. All the way, hallelujah. Thank you for Gene Ty and Mac Perrin and his group. And to conclude our portion of the program, ladies and gentlemen, the orchestra will now play I Got Rhythm, conducted by Emerson Buckley. Emerson, you ready? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Emerson Buckley. Thank you, all the men of the W.O. Orchestra. And our deepest thanks to Mutual for sending their wonderful singing stars to us here in the park. Jimmy Carroll, Eugenie Baird, Gene Tye, the Mac Perrin Singers. And again, our thanks to Sylvan Levin and to Emerson Buckley. And a great big hand for them all again, please. Thank you. And now for the benefit of all those TV viewers who get up early in the morning or stay up late at night or are watching television at any hour of the day or night in person and say hello to you, Dave Garroway. Oh! Can you get all the way through here? If you're used to getting through that equipment every morning, you certainly ought to be able to get through this. Greetings. Thank you, Brian. Gee, so many. There are a whole lot of people over here that are familiar ones to you and that you'll be meeting from time to time. Henny Youngman and I were sitting talking about some of them a moment ago and deciding on what kind of jokes a crowd like this would like to hear. And we got to talking about anti-Russian jokes and patriotic jokes. And Henny said, you know, I don't think they want to hear any jokes about a thing like this today. And I guess that kind of sunk over several of us over here. We may have cut out half the jokes. We got to talking about the fact that we who are born citizens really envy in a very strong way you folks who have come in so lately. Because you have something that no matter how hard we try, we will never have. We can try to imagine how it's like not to have the privilege. We can read about it. We all have lately a lot. But that's no substitute for being on the outside looking in as you people have been. The warm feeling that is yours belongs only to you and all the others of us who haven't been on the outside looking in. We'll never know that. And Sid and Henny and a lot of the folks sitting over there are genuinely envious of you today. As well as full of deep congratulations on being where you are at this moment. As we are to be lucky to be with you. Thank you very much. Thank you Dave Garroway. And now every year for a few minutes we have laughs, laughs, laughs. And they're always from the same wonderful guy, Henny Youngman. Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. I was talking to Dave Garroway through his interpreters. I was busy with Dave helping him pack money. And he's one of the nicest guys I've ever met. We were all sitting in a group incidentally. I was listening to Eugenie Baird Singh who I think this year will become a real great star ladies and gentlemen. It's the young lady you heard out here. And Sid Caesar and June Valley and a bunch of the folks over there. We were all talking about the new jokes. Now there's a joke about a psychiatrist. A fellow walked up and he said I gotta go to see a psychiatrist. He said why? He says well I double parked my car. He said well everybody double parks. He says yeah but on top of other cars? Talking about this, the I'm an American day ladies and gentlemen always remind me of I think that everybody's an American in this country and they should feel that way. They tell crazy jokes about different religions. Now I was starting to tell a joke one day about two Jewish boys. The fellow says why do you always make it two Jewish boys? Why don't you make it something else once in a while? He said alright. Two Chinamen got off a trolley car. One Chinaman said to the other you're gonna have a Passover this year. People are nuts lately. I don't know what's going on. I think they're nervous, excited. I owe the government money. I owe the government $5,000 but they're good for it. Nothing to worry about. Now you take my wife. Please. My wife gets me crazy. Of course I got a little boy 12 years old and my wife said to him, you want a baby brother, baby sister? He said mother, if I wouldn't put you too much out of shape I'd like a pony. Well the kid drinks, what am I gonna do with him? More important things in life. People are inventing new things. There's a fellow, two fellows here tonight, Jack Mendez and Ben Kelly, they've invented something new. They put chlorophyll and aspirin for people who have stinking headaches. There's a lot of new things on the market. There's a million people with their nerves. I was standing at a place last night and I found a guy's hand in my pocket. I said what do you want? He says I want a match. I said why don't you ask for it? He says I don't talk to strangers. I think everybody's a little nuts. I'd like to do more for you, so I will. There's so many people waiting to go on ladies and gentlemen. Thanks for letting me come here today. Again, I am thrilled to be with you. Goodbye. And now from the Metropolitan Opera Company, one of their leading tenors, the great young American tenor Eugene Connolly, who will sing La Donna Immobile from Rigoletto, Eugene Connolly. Thank you. La Donna Immobile, qual più malfevento, multa d'accento e di pensiero. Sempre no mobile, legge adroviso, impianto in riso e menzogniero. La Donna immobile, qual più malfevento, multa d'accento e di pensiero. E di pensiero. E di pensiero. E sempre misero chi alle s'affida, chi le confida, mal cald will pobre. Quora meno insente si felici a pieno, chi su qualseno non liba amore. La Donna immobile, qual più malfevento, multa d'accento e di pensiero. E di pensiero. E di pensiero. E di pensiero. E di pensiero. E di pensiero. Gene, I wonder if we could hold you on here for a moment and ask you to give us one more song. He's not even rehearsed for it, but... What's it going to be? Danny Boy. Oh, Danny Boy, the pipes, the pipes are calling from glen to glen and down the mountainside. The summer's gone and all the roses falling. It's you, it's you, must go and I must bide. But come here back when summer's in the meadow. Oh, when the valley's crossed and white with snow. It's I'll be here in sunshine or in shadow. Oh, Danny Boy. Oh, Danny Boy. I love you so. But when ye come and all the flowers are dying, If I am dead, as dead I well may be, He'll come and find the place where I am lying And kneel and say an Ave there for me And I shall hear, though soft you tread above me And all my grave will warmer, sweeter be For you will abandon and tell me that you love me And I shall sleep in peace Until you come to me Wonderful, Gene. Thank you very much, Mr. Conley. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now we're going to introduce to you the very beautiful, young, popular recording star of RCA, Victor. Girl, you hear every Saturday night on your hit parade, June Valley. They're not making the skies as blue this year Wish you were here, as blue as they did when you were here Wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here. And the mornings don't seem as new, brand new as they did when you, wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here. Someone's painting the leaves all wrong this year, wish you were here. Wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here. And why do the birds change their song this year, wish you were here. They're not shining the stars as bright, they've stolen the joy from the night. Wish you were here, wish you were here, wish you were here. Has it been a great show so far? Wish you were here, wish you were here. Worth being out on this nice cloudy day. Well, we have got a great treat ahead and many, many great treats ahead. And next, from the Metropolitan Opera Company, Some Enchanted Man. Singing from La Juive, the aria si la rigueur, Mr. H.O. Pinza. Singing from La Juive, the aria si la rigueur, Mr. H.O. Pinza. Ziffva, la vengeance. Singing from La Juive, the aria si la rigueur, My God, mon Dieu, mon Dieu, Mi Oh ah oh là ça crée Oh, no, no, no. Oh, no, no, no. Oh, no, no. Oh, no. Oh, no, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no. I bring you to this day, to you. I bring you to this day, to you. On this day, my God, to you. If we applaud very loud, I think he might sing One Enchanted Evening. One dream in my heart, one love to be living for, one love to be living for. This nearly was mine, one girl for my dream. One partner in paradise, this promise of paradise. This nearly was mine, close to my heart she came. Only to fly away, only to fly as day flies from moonlight. Now, now I'm alone, still dreaming of paradise. Still thinking that paradise, once nearly was mine. So clear and deep are my fancies, of things I wish were true. I'll keep remembering evenings I wish I'd spent with you. I'll keep remembering kisses from lips I'll never own. And all the lovely adventures that we have never known. Now, now I'm alone, still dreaming of paradise. Still saying that paradise, once nearly was mine. And now it's my distinct pleasure to turn the microphone back again to the chairman of this great citizens day celebration, the honorable James A. Fawley. Mr. Fawley. I'm going to take a few moments of your time to present a few very distinguished gentlemen for a bow. First, I want to present Lieutenant General Willis D. Crittenberger, commander and general of the First Army. I would now like to commend Lieutenant Commander James P. Farrell, representing Rear Admiral Roscoe Hillencoaster, commandant of the Third Naval District. Now one of the heroes of the close to raid, the last World War, Lieutenant General Leon W. Johnson. Now an old friend of over 30 years standing, the Honorable John Cashmore, president of the Borough of Kings. Sir Admiral Lewis B. Olsen, U.S. Coast Guard. Now one of the great Americans of this and any other generation, the Honorable B. M. Baruch. And now his honor, Mayor Impelle Terry. Mr. Farrell, Mr. Baruch, President Cashmore, Reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I think it's appropriate at this time to call attention to the fact that just about five years ago, a great citizen of the city of New York, a great mayor of the city of New York, passed down to his greater reward. And right now, at approximately this time, at Woodlawn Cemetery, the people of his devoted city are paying tribute to his memory. I might also point out that Mayor LaGuardia, during the period of time he was mayor of this city, gave great impetus to this celebration. As a matter of fact, he put forth every facility of his command, in cooperation with the Hearst newspapers, in promoting the first original, I am an American day. And I think it would be very appropriate at this time, if we would stand just for a moment, in tribute to his memory. Thank you very much. I'd like to express my very sincere appreciation to a great citizen of the city of New York, who's always willing, in spite of a tremendously busy program, to take on another job in the civic interest, whenever he's called upon, he's always ready to serve. And may I thank Jim Foley, on behalf of all the people of the city of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first Citizenship Day, to be held here in the city of New York. It is not, of course, the first ceremony of its kind, but it is the first time, that we have held it under this name. And at this time of the year. The reason is that, on the first of March of this year, President Truman signed the joint resolution of both Houses of Congress, combining, I am an American day, with Constitution Day, to be observed as Citizenship Day, on September 17th, 1952. We are holding our ceremonies today, because we wanted thousands of you to be able to join us in welcoming these new Americans to our city. We are here to give recognition to the young people of our community who have become of age. We are also here to honor those foreign born, who have become naturalized citizens during the past year. How are we to honor them? That is what I want to talk to you about today, in this very important year in the history of our nation. What does it mean to us when young people come of age? What does it mean to us when a man or woman from foreign soil becomes a citizen? It means that thousands of young people and thousands of new citizens are now ready to take over the duties as well as the responsibilities of citizenship. It means that all of them can join us in taking a more active part in the life of the community. It means that they have privileges that they never had before and that do not exist in any other country in the entire world. It means that they have privileges that they have to be able to join us in the world. It means that they have to be able to join us in the world. It means a great many things to a great many people. But to the newly grown up and to the new Americans, it means that for the first time in their lives, they can vote in a free American election. We can honor them today by urging them with all our hearts to join us in voting on Election Day. They can honor us by giving us and by giving the country the benefit of their judgment. This is as good a time as any we will ever know to tell these, our neighbors and our neighbors' children, that we need their help to make the great decisions of our times. Our nation is run by the will of the majority. Our country is founded on the belief that when the majority of its people speak, their decision must be right. But remember this, the majority must speak. We face a crucial election this November. We must choose a President of the United States. We must elect one third of the Senate, a new House of Representatives. We must choose judges for our courts. We must choose those who will govern us and set the course of the nation in an unsettled and dangerous time. We can only do this right if all of us help make the decision. All of our eligible voters must go to the polls on Election Day. This is not a country of strong-armed minorities and salt-mined democracy. This is a country of real democracy, whose government helps the people take part in the management of the nation. That is why all the world today looks to us for proper leadership. That is why the decisions we make this year are not for ourselves alone, but for all free nations. That is why we need the thinking of our young citizens, our new citizens, and every citizen, if we are properly to face a grave future. Only then can we move forward with confidence. And only then can we properly support world freedom. For our people are the strongest voice of freedom. And you new citizens, young and old, who are here today, must from now on know that each one of you, as he or she carries out his duty to vote, is a living, a vital force in the United States and in the world generally. Thank you and God bless America. Thank you and God bless America. Thank you Mr. Mayor for your very fine address. It is now my pleasure to present the Reverend Dr. David de Soula Poole, our Spanish and Portuguese synagogue of the city of New York, founded here almost 300 years ago in 1654. Dr. Poole. Now, these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem unto the residue of the elders and to all the people. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, to all whom I have caused to be transplanted. Build houses and dwell in them. Plant gardens and eat their fruit. Take a wife and have sons and daughters. Take a wife for your sons and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters and multiply in numbers there. Take a wife and seek the peace of the city to which I have caused you to be transplanted. And pray to the Lord for it. For in its peace shall you have peace. May peace be within our walls. Security within our homes. May the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. Thank you, Dr. Poole. It is now my pleasure to present a friend of many years standing, a very distinguished jurist of the United States District Court of the Southern District, the Honorable Sylvester Ryan. Judge Ryan. Thank you, Dr. Poole. Reverend members of the clergy, Mayor M. Pelletieri, and you, my fellow citizens. In our busy lives, times are few, the occasion of the are few, the occasions rare when we gather an assembly to express our appreciation of the liberties and civil rights we enjoy as citizens. Seldom do we publicly proclaim our devotion and allegiance to our country and to its flag? Today we gather for such a purpose. We gather not at the command of a despotic government, not in compliance with the orders of a dictator. We meet as a result of our own individual decision, reached by the exercise of our free will. We live under a government which was created and exists for the good and for the benefit of the people and of the people alone. It is a government which respects the God-given rights of man. It recognizes that they are the natural rights possessed by man as a rational creature of God. Our government protects these rights and guarantees their free exercise and enjoyment. We enjoy the right the right to worship in accordance with the dictates of our conscience. The privacy of our homes and the sanctity of our families are protected. We are assured a public trial by a jury selected from amongst our fellow citizens and presided over by an impartial judge. We may think what we please and speak with a freedom existing nowhere else in the world. But too often we forget that the enjoyment of these rights imposes upon us obligations and duties. We all have placed upon us a moral and legal necessity of fulfilling the rights of one another. We must respect the rights of our neighbor to worship as he chooses. We must guard the privacy of our neighbor's home and the sanctity of his family with the same zeal and favor as we defend our own. We are obligated to be the keeper and defender of our neighbor's civil rights as he is of ours. We must recognize that these precious rights are preserved to us through our government and that they will endure only so long as each of us are loyal citizens. I ask you all now my fellow citizens to rise and to join with me in a pledge of allegiance to our flag and to our country. Will you place your right hands over your hearts and repeat after me, I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you, Judge Ryan. I shall now present Mrs. Walker E. Edwards, President General of the Flag Foundation of America, for the presentation of Citizen Awards. Mrs. Edwards. Mr. Chairman. Fellow citizens, I know that everyone here feels as I do, that it is grand to be an American. I am happy and proud to join with you and the millions of our fellow Americans throughout this nation who are gathered today in free assembly to pledge allegiance to our flag and the ideals and principles for which it symbolizes. As citizens of the United States, we have and we believe in representative government. Our flag is a bulwark of strength here at home and a beacon light of hope for freedom-loving people throughout the world. If the flag could speak, it probably would say something like this. Born during the nation's infancy, I have grown with it. My stars increasing with it. As the country has grown in size. The domain over which I wave, expanding until the sun on my flying folds, now never sets. Filled with significance are my colors of red, white, and blue, into which have been woven the strength and courage of American manhood, the love and loyalty of American womanhood. Stirring are the stories of my stars and stripes. I represent the Declaration of Independence. I stand for the Constitution of the United States. I reflect the wealth and grandeur of this great land of opportunities. I signify the law of the land. I tell the achievements and progress of the American people in art and science, culture and literature, and literature, invention and commerce, transportation and industry. I stand for peace and goodwill among the nations of the world. I believe in tolerance. I am the badge of the nation's greatness and the emblem of its destiny. Threaten me and millions will spring to my defense. The privileges of citizenship have obligations which we must all fulfill. This great gathering has been made possible through the leadership of four great American citizens. On behalf of the Flag Foundation of America, I have the honor to present to each of them the Flag Foundation Citizenship Award. Confidentially, this is a surprise accolade to these men, who through their deeds have proved themselves to be outstanding American citizens. First, to the honorable Vincent Impeleteri, a naturalized citizen, who here in this land of opportunities has, through his own efforts, become the mayor of the greatest city in the world. Thank you. Thank you. Secondly, to the honorable James Farley, the chairman of this great gathering. Who in his years of public service has made a tremendous contribution to the cause of representative government in these United States. To Colonel Edward Reichardt, who for the past 13 years has been the coordinator and spark plug for Citizenship Day. I have an American Day and Constitution Day, all of which we are celebrating on this great occasion. Last but not least, the honorable James Sauter, whose diligent efforts as chairman of the Entertainment Committee has brought together on this platform, one of the greatest assemblies of stars to ever appear on one program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Walker E. Edwards, president general of the Flag Foundation of America, here at the mall at Central Park, is now posing for a battery of news photographers who are taking a picture with the honorable James A. Farley. Mayor Impeleteri has joined the picture group, along with Colonel Edward G. Reichardt, and the honorable James Sauter, your master of ceremonies today. They're smiling, turning to the news photographers now. Here again is Mrs. Sauter. Thank you, Mrs. Edwards. And before I turn the program back to Jim Sauter, I want to express my most sincere and grateful thanks, speaking to the committee, to the men and women of the entertainment world who have come here today, those whom you've seen and heard, and the others who will follow, for being here and present on this very interesting and delightful occasion. May I say to you that I don't think there is any group of people in all the world who are more considerate and more helpful than the men and women of the entertainment world who, on any and all occasions, are ready to donate their service. And we're grateful to them. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And now one of the most glamorous people in the whole entertainment world, from the world of radio and television, Maggie McNellis. She's all ready with the umbrella, too. Thank you very much, Jim Sauter. As a matter of fact, I was about to say that I never know why I am anyplace like this, because I don't sing like it's your pins off. Or even like Donald Duck, I can't dance. I don't play a bass fiddle, even if I could get one from these handsome guys in the world. And so I have one of the most gracious friends in the world of the entertainment world, from the world of radio and television, Maggie McNellis. Thank you very much, Jim Sauter. As a matter of fact, I was about to say that I never know why I am anyplace like this, because I don't sing like Ezio Pinzo or even like Donald Duck. I don't play a bass fiddle even if I could get one from these handsome guys down here, say like Maury Amsterdam plays. But I was invited here today because I do have a secret weapon. It isn't quite like the atom bomb and it's sort of the opposite of that doctor that makes the rain. I have an umbrella. Now if I bring my umbrella, it's certain not to rain on your people. So you see, I'm a very, very helpful person after all. My only participation today is to bring my umbrella to ward off the rain. But seriously, you've heard some absolutely magnificent words from our distinguished mayor, Mr. Impeletere, from Jim Farley, from Judge Ryan, from all the people who take this world of ours very seriously. And as I was listening to that and looking over here at these marvelous young people, the PALs who are waiting over there, are going to do something for you after a while. The young people of the city of New York. I have a little girl and just as I left the house, I looked at her sleeping in her crib. She's six months old tomorrow. And I said to myself, thank you very much, God, for letting my little Meg be born in the United States, in the city of New York. Because I know that when she gets older and when she gets to be able to vote, like the people we were talking about a few moments ago, she's going to be able to vote the way she wants to do, to say the things that she wants to do, what she wants to say, do what she wants to do. I thank you, God, very much. And I thank all of you people for making our world a good place for my little girl. Thank you. And now more glamour from the theatre, but before I introduce the next young lady, I would like to introduce to you the most glamorous lady in the city of New York, one of the most glamorous people I have ever met, the first lady of our city, Mrs. Vincent, our impelitary. And from the world of the nightclub, the great recording star, the very glamorous Margaret Phelan. Which one's on, Jim? This one? This one? I don't know. There's so many up here. Everything is supposed to work here. Oh, well, fine. Then I'll just go over here. There we are. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. MS. Fish gotta swim, birds gotta fly. I gotta love one man till I die. Can't help lovin' that man of mine. Tell me he's lazy. Tell me he's slow. Tell me I'm crazy, but I ought to know Can't help loving that man of mine When he goes away, that's a rainy day But when he comes back, that day is fine The sun will shine He can come home as late as can be Home without him ain't no home to me Can't help loving that man of mine When he goes away, that's a rainy day But when he comes back, that day is fine The sun will shine He can come home as late as can be Home without him ain't no home to me Can't help loving that man of mine We want to say that we're very happy to be here. By the way, Imogene, from the number last night, has got a little cold. Believe me, she can speak. If you don't believe me There it is So, I think we'll just say a few words And as he said before, it might come down So we'll get off as quickly as possible But first I want to say, looking around here I look over to my one time commandant Coast guard He's now looking at me I used to look at him Used to wait about five hours like this Gee, I wish he'll come out Maybe he won't come out There he is And he didn't even see me, you know Take a good look And so I want to say it's wonderful being here All races and creeds and religions getting together And a realignment of American day And so, until we see you next Saturday night God bless you I don't know how many of you people out here have seen a great show that came into New York this summer Called New Faces But if you did see it You'll be very glad again to see the great star The young singing star, Eartha Kitt Accompanied by the Clarence Williams Trio, Miss Kitt I'm going to live The lives I sing about Down in my soul I'm going to fight For the right hands and the wrong Out in the street In the street Or in my home If I have company Or if I'm alone I'm going to live The life I sing about Down in my soul Every day Every day Everywhere On this busy thoroughfare People scorn me Talk about me Talk about me Say I'm foolish But I don't care You can't sing one thing And try to live another Be a saint in the church And a devil's undercover You've got to live The life you sing about Down in your soul Down in your soul Mmm Mmm In my soul In my soul I'm going to fight I'm going to fight But I'm going to fight And a saint in the church And a devil's undercover You've got to live The life you sing about Down in your soul Down in your soul Mmm In my soul I'm going to fight For the right and shun the wrong Out in the street Or in my home If I have company Or if I'm alone I'm going to live Live the life I sing about Down in my soul Gore And he runs instead of.. The way I'm sure Can't stay While I met Well, I met my brother the other day, and I gave him my right hand. And no soon as ever my back was turned, scandalized my name. Do you call that a brother? No, no. Do you call that a brother? No, no. Do you call that a brother? No, no. Scandalized my name. Well, I met my sister the other day, and I gave her my right hand. And no soon as ever my back was turned, scandalized my name. Do you call that a sister? Do you call that a sister? Do you call that a sister? No, no. Scandalized my name. Well, I met my neighbor the other day, and I gave him my right hand. And no soon as ever my back was turned, scandalized my name. Do you call that a neighbor? Do you call that a neighbor? Do you call that a neighbor? No, no. No, no. No, no. Scandalized my name. Well, I met my preacher the other day, and I gave him my right hand. And no soon as ever my back was turned, scandalized my name. Do you call that religion? No, no. Do you call that religion? No, no. Do you call that religion? No, no. Scandalized my name. And now the star of the CBS TV show, Battle of the Ages, that you all love so, that very lovable Maury Amsterdam. Oh, all right. It's all right. Don't worry about the camera, because I've played these things before. I hold on to everything. I'd like to say I'm glad to be here, but to tell you the truth, I don't know yet. Ah, what a day. It says, how's things on the sewer, fellas? Everything all right? Well, listen, I'd like to announce the baseball scores, but I don't know them. I guess that'll take care of that. How are you? Everything all right? This guy looks like he's waiting for the show to start. Oh, I have a thrilling announcement to make. I didn't hear what this fella said, but I am a comedian. I explain that immediately because I don't like any confusion in your mind. Anything aggravates me when I'm telling jokes of people nudging each other and saying, what does he do? Being a comedian, I should run right out and tell 10 or 12 snappy gags. Why don't you? I will, and he did. Joke number one is about these two fellas have a pause as me. I haven't got a thing. He's knocked the door, in, out, ran out, and first he had to fight. What'd he say? Why? Joke number two, a girl is driving her car down the state highway. She's doing about 65 miles an hour, looks in the rear view mirror, and there's some speed cops following her. So she goes a little faster, pretty soon four or five speed cops following her. First thing you know, she got about 18 of these guys on motorcycles trailing her. So she comes to a gas station, drives in, pulls on the brake, jumps out of her car, runs into the ladies' room, and slams the door. Stays in there about 10 minutes, she comes out here, these 19 cops all draped around her car, just waiting for her. She looks at him, she says, I bet you fellas didn't think I was going to make it. Well, now I know what you want to hear. We're here for a while. The fella goes to a house to fix the gas meter, he walks by the kitchen, he looks in, there's a dame with a big head of cabbage and a paring knife. Cabbage leaves flying all over the joint. The guy's standing there with a baseball bat over her shoulder, in his hand he got a couple of walnuts, keeps shaking them in front of her eyes. Well, this new boy does not dig this Mishagas. Walks in the other room, there's another lady sitting there, he says, I don't want to be nosy, but what's going on in the kitchen? She says, eh, pay no attention to them, they're both deaf and dumb. She wants him to stay home and mow the lawn, he's saying, nuts to you, I'm going to the ball game. Clean that up pretty good, I think, huh? We got the mayor's committee, you gotta watch it. I'm looking around to see children, you know. This is such a novelty in the afternoon, I don't know if you know this enough, but you don't, you very seldom see kids in the afternoon. Now, you only see them in nightclubs. It's a new thing, kids seven, eight years old, they don't go to sleep anymore, I think they're putting Benzedrine in the pablum. Honestly, and I'm particularly cognizant of this for two reasons, in the first place I'm an ultra-cognizant, and in the second place, we have a couple of kids of our own, and I don't like to brag, but I've got a boy nine and a half years old, he's got brains he hasn't even used yet. I want to show you an example, imagine this, nine and a half years old, he walks in the kitchen one day, there's a red hot poker on the stove and he grabbed a hold of it. Nobody had to tell him to put that poker down, thinking everything. And when he knew that we had a new little one on the way, we have a little girl who's 20 months old today, his mother said to him, Gregory, that's his name, Gregory. He was named after our rabbi's patron saint. She said to him, Gregory, what would you rather have, a little baby brother, little baby sister? He said, well, mom, if it wouldn't put you out of shape too much, I'd rather have a horse. You know how kids are today, they're so crazy about having you. Hop along, Cassidy, everything like that. You people have been so nice, I think I'll go home. Honestly, you've been such dolls, but we have a wonderful show that we want to get on here because they have to get back to the Paramount Theatre. And you know, one of the nice things about being in this business is you get to know personally the people that you've admired professionally for so long. And such an occasion as this. This is a fellow who has been a pioneer in popular music. That's the only way you can describe this fellow. He has been a guiding light for people who really want to bring Americana, the type of music that has started in this country and continually keep it before the public. And more important than that, he's one of the nicest guys you ever met, ladies and gentlemen, the King Louis Armstrong. Let's get that boy out. Oh, got it. There he is. There he is. Taking off weight too, I can see that. Ha ha. Good evening folks. Getting ready. While the boys are setting up there, we're going to beat out a few good ones there. See all the cats there. Got this one. Ha ha ha. Are you all ready boys? Yes sir. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Now I'm going to play a little shiny. Ha ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Now I'm going to play a little shiny. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Now I'm going to pay a little shiny. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. Ha ha ha. The folks are putting in soft and loose You didn't tell me, boy, because I knew you'd guess When it's steeply time down south, yeah Soft wind blowing through the pinewood trees The folks down there live a life of ease When old mammy falls on her knees When it's steeply time down south, yeah Steamboats up the river coming and going Splash in the night of wind You hear those banjos ringing, the folks are singing And at last they'll break them dead, yes Team love started with this dreamy song Take me right where I belong Right in my family love Thank you folks, and now we're going to run right in the little New balloons right through here Thank you, boy Thank you, boy I'd love you, my sweet heart Thank you Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now folks, I want you to be the young man that just kills everybody down in the paramount. Mr. Mr. Valentine. Thank you. I want to waste too much time. Thank you. I want to waste too much time, Louis. We've got to get back to everybody up another. Get the stuff set up. We'll be in business in a few minutes. And there it is. Let's not waste too much time. All right. So take your time. There are always a few slow readers. My first trick? I'm glad you asked. Hey, scurvy. Bring it out. Set it right over there on the table. Oh, what stage hands? For my first miracle, let's have all eyes on the basket. That's the basket over there. Here we go. Easy. Up. Too bad for the first one, huh? Only the beginning. Only the beginning. That's the way it's going to be from now on. Sit back. Enjoy yourself. I'm very good in these outdoor theaters. Plenty of chlorophyll. We can't die. For my first drink. Oh, yes. Chicken in a basket. Hey, get here to this one. My first drink. The magician, that's what the black rag says. The magician cuts the piece of rope in half. Two pieces. The kid's clever. In the basket. A few passes over the basket. Simple trick of sticking the two hunks of rope back together again. Keep your eyes on the two hunks of rope. Only way I know how. There it is. Cleverly done together. Oops. Wrong rope. Okay. How jealous can you be? I want to be a hit here. I'll tell them what you did. Some crumb back there cut them both. Well, I hope you're happy. Any other guy would get mad. Notice. Trooper that I am, notice how nonchalantly I get out of it. So much for the simple tricks. Let's get into the more difficult. I'd like to borrow a $50 bill. Say no more. Back to the simple. I got it. I got it. Simple stuff from now on. Here's a simple one I saw another guy do at one time. It was also one of those, the last word there in the rag. Where I made use of a sheet of newspaper and your kind attention. There you slobs. That ain't funny. This guy first showed the sheet of paper. Nothing on this side, but he made a lot of money. And the other guy was I, the other guy, who had a lot of money. What's the point of the money? What's the point of the money? I did not know. I did not know. I did not know. I did not know. I did not know. You did not know what you did. It was a simple one I saw another guy do at one time. He was also one of those, the last word there in the rag. Where he made use of a sheet of newspaper and your kind attention. You slobs. That ain't funny. This guy first showed a sheet of paper. Nothing on this side, nothing on that side. Sure, plenty of jobs in town. Snap out of it. And then, he very neatly started to rip the sheet of paper into a number of bits. Neatly. There's a faster way. Used to be a chicken plucker. Not too much money, but to show me some pretty sharp chicks. Then he folded the bits into a small bundle. Made a few magic passes over the sheet of paper. And then, he restored the sheet of paper. There's a trick I wish I could do. Restore the sheet of paper. I never care too much for that. There, that either. I don't forget. Ah, you're catching on. No magic, just a charming personality. Ah, these tricks are nothing, but they keep me off the streets. Ah. Don't laugh. You may have bags in your pants. This is the best one I do. Next to breathing. From the empty paper bag, I produce a little white, plump, 68-pound pigeon. A small one. First, I blow up the bag. Give him all you've got. That's all. On the count of three, the pigeon. One, two, you know. Pop your little head out. Da-da-dee. Ah. Quit kidding your head. Good. Good. What a mess. Ah, just one of those shows, that's all. Sometimes I hit the bag a little bit too hard. Don't mean to think. I should have seen the convertible. It got away. Next act, ready? Huh? All set? What's the hurry? Watch your time. It's early. 20 inches past four. Give me a chance. Ah, that's show business. Everybody gets a chance. Certainly nice being here at the mall with your friends. I've been away for a while doing television where all the big money is. But it's still nice. Sure don't last long. Eight or nine years and they start to fall to pieces on you. Well, in the rest of the act, I can't stand to see you. A few clever card tricks I recorded last year for RCA Victor. Looks like a hit. Two sides. Playing cards. What won't they think of next? Here's the one I like in the wind. The only one doing it today. The cards turn over slowly, shoot back, stop in a center like Pike's Peak. I don't think they'd like it. And now, that's not ready. Okay, I'll get everything in order. Just starting to get warm. Pretty baffling, huh? Well, now that you know I'm a big fake, I think I'll take the thing off. And in conclusion, that always gets a big hand. In conclusion, I shall put the two pieces of rope back together again and prove myself a pretty good guy. Here we go. Drum roll. Hey! That's as close together as I can get them. I certainly try the best I can. Bring it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Come back here. When it's time to go I'm ready to go right now Darling, I love you so That's my desire I'm going for you Come back here, where you going? Where you going? To spend one night with you In our old rendezvous And reminisce with you That's my desire Mine too To meet where gypsies play Down in the dim company We'll That's my desire We'll Simp A little A little A little Musky Tell I'll Kiss Into your eyes Divine Ladies and gentlemen With Vilma Middleton And Louis Armstrong And the all-star singing That's my desire We take leave of you now From the mall in Central Park Where your city station Has brought you The Mayor's Day ceremonies Marking the opening of Citizenship Week Formerly known as I Am an American Day Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletere Was the principal speaker And over 50 prominent artists From all facets of the entertainment world Contributed their talents To this afternoon's Two hour plus celebration The Honorable James A. Farley Was chairman James Sauter Was master of ceremonies We return you now To our studios In the municipal building This is the municipal broadcasting system