The End The End The End The End The End The End And this chain reaction continues? Yes, producing more heat as the ice crystals form. The cloud grows larger until it encounters a wind sufficiently strong to detach the upper part of the cloud mass from the breeding spot over the mountain. This begins to look dangerous. It could be tough. At this point, the colliding snow crystals, their breakup and other reactions not yet well understood combine to develop a high electric charge in the cloud. So shortly after leaving the mountain, a full-fledged thunderstorm with jagged lightning and torrential rain is unleashed on a wooded valley. Well, I can see right here that every cloud-to-ground stroke of lightning is a potential forest fire and the torrential rain, a potential flood. Correct, Top. So the trick is to so control these storms that they become a natural resource in themselves rather than a destroyer of our natural resources. That's the idea, Top. Dr. Schaefer told me that the energy generated in such a storm is tremendous partly because of the instability due to the supercooled clouds. I think it's time we discussed the seeding operation that has received so much publicity recently. Well, according to Dr. Schaefer, such clouds as we have mentioned, when seeded by certain types of nuclei which form ice crystals, cause the sudden release of this energy. Depending on the way this occurs, the subsequent developments may produce either a beneficial rain or a disastrous storm. But by introducing the proper seeding agent at the proper time, it is possible that someday weather may serve to augment rather than destroy other natural resources. If that day arrives, we may consider this type of weather as a usable natural resource. Right, Top. It is quite possible that the most significant use to be made of weather in the next few decades is in the realm of climatology. Just what is climatology, Frank? It's a scientific approach to planting which considers the average climatic effects expected in a particular region, and then the scheduling of planting so that harvesting and processing might be done under the most favorable conditions. Such work is now being done at Seabrook Farms in New Jersey with considerable success. To sum up, then, a proper concept of the relationships existing between weather, climate, and life processes may be used to our advantage, rather than having weather problems remain simply difficulties which must be tolerated. Precisely, Top. And if we can manage this in the future, much of the basis for hunger, unrest, and war, which are basically physical and economic problems, might be eliminated. Dr. Schaefer believes that a better concept of the manner in which weather may be used as a natural resource is one of the most challenging and fascinating of the current problems that should be solved. It certainly is a fascinating subject, Frank, and many thanks to you for the information you brought us from Dr. Vincent Schaefer of the General Electric Research Laboratory. Friends, if you would like a copy of the science paper dealing with today's subject, just drop a line to Excursions in Science, in care of the station to which you are listening, and ask for Science Paper 391. And now it's time for Frank to have a tussle with the questions that have been sent in by you listeners. But first, a reminder. Don't worry if your question is not used on the air. You see, with the help of the General Electric Research Laboratory, or some other equally reputable scientific organization, we find the correct answer and send it on to you in a personal letter. But for now, Frank, let's do what we can on the air. First, a question from a lady who asks, what is meant by squaring the circle, and why is it impossible? Well, that was a problem made famous by the ancient Greeks. It was basically this. To draw a square having the same area as a given circle, using nothing but a pencil, a compass, and an unmarked straight edge. Though this was never solved, it wasn't until 1882 that it was proved impossible. And how was this proved? It's really impossible to explain the proof on the radio, Tuck, but I can say that the proof involves a very advanced mathematical analysis. And the fact that pi, the ratio between the diameter of a circle and its circumference, is what mathematicians call a transcendental number. Mm-hmm. That frightens me off. Frank, let's try this next one from a gentleman who wonders, what causes the appearance of bright red streaks in the sky about an hour or so after sunset. This effect makes it look as if the whole sky were on fire. Well, Tuck, it sounds as though some very high, thin streak of cirrus clouds were at the bottom, or should I say top, of this effect. You see, the clouds would be perhaps six to eight miles above the ground. At such an altitude, they would remain illuminated with the reddish light of the setting sun, long after the lower clouds were in darkness. And now I'm going to pay particular attention to the answer to this one, Frank. A housewife asks, can homemade grape wine that has turned sour be brought back to its original sweetness? I'm sorry, Tuck, but this can't be done very easily. You see, when wine turns to vinegar, the alcohol in it, together with the aid of certain bacteria, combines with oxygen from the air to form acetic acid. There is no simple way of reversing the process, that is, of reducing the acetic acid back into alcohol. Next, Frank, a young student asks, what is a Schmidt camera? This is a type of astronomical camera, Tuck. It was announced in 1930 by a German astronomer named Bernhard Schmidt. And how does it work? First of all, light falls on a concave mirror that has the shape of part of the surface of a sphere. Can a mirror like that form an image? Yes, but not a sharp one. It suffers from what is called spherical aberration. Consequently, a specially shaped lens must be placed in front. After the light rays have passed through, they hit the mirror in such a way that they are focused sharply on a film between the lens and the mirror. Excuse me, Frank, but just what is the advantage of such a camera? The advantage is that the camera gathers a great deal of light and at the same time can photograph a large area of sky. You see, the same optical system is now used in television receivers where the picture is projected on a large screen. The picture tube takes the place of the film in the Schmidt camera. Light from its face hits the mirror and is reflected through the lens to the screen. Thus, the direction of the light is just opposite to that used in taking pictures, but the optical effect is the same. I am now chastened and informed. The next listener asked you to tell her something about Lake Bonneville, and she doesn't mean the water behind Bonneville Dam. Well, this is the name given by geologists to a freshwater lake which existed thousands of years ago. It covered some 20,000 square miles in what is now Utah as well as parts of Idaho and Nevada. In places, it was as much as 1,000 feet deep. Sounds large and deep enough to last forever. What happened to it? Well, Tuff, as the temperature rose and the rainfall decreased, with the withdrawal of the glaciers that had covered a large part of North America, Lake Bonneville shrank, and only a few much smaller lakes survived. The principal one is the Great Salt Lake which covers only 2,000 square miles and has an average depth of less than 20 feet. And, Frank, that just about concludes today's session. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question of a scientific nature that is troubling you, why not send that question on to us? With the help of the General Electric Research Laboratory or some other equally reputable scientific organization, we find the correct answer and send that answer on to you in a personal letter. Just address your question to Excursions in Science in care of the station to which you are listening. Also, remember, if you would like a copy of the science paper dealing with today's subject, just ask for Science Paper 391. That's Science Paper 391. And now this is Howard Tupper and Frank Slingheiser saying goodbye until the next Excursions in Science program. Emma Jean, come here. Well, here I am, Daddy. I, uh, I understand you threw a piece of coal through Mrs. Jones' window, did you? Oh, yes, I did, Daddy. But I didn't mean it. But you did it, and that was naughty. In the first place, you might have hurt someone. Oh, I couldn't hurt nobody. Nobody was home. I made sure before I threw the coal. I, uh, yes. Well, there's another thing to remember. Coal is important to our civilization. There are lots of people who could use that coal to keep warm in the winter. Then, too, we must not waste our natural resources. Coal wasn't meant to be just thrown around. We've got to conserve it. Oh, but, Daddy, there's enough coal in the last several hundred years. There is? Uh-huh. How do you know? I heard it on the radio. A program called Excursions in Science. It must have been this program the young lady referred to. Now, how did she know before we got on the air? Well, radio's wonderful. At any rate, we have a report on coal, petroleum, and natural science for you this time. You see, your science reporter, Frank Singeiser, had a talk recently with Dr. James Boyd, director of the United States Bureau of Mines. Dr. Boyd discussed with Frank the impact of modern science on our coal and oil resources. You know, one thing that puzzles me, Frank, is why the two are lumped together. Their grouping isn't as haphazard as that, Tup. Coal and oil belong together. Both come from the ground. Both are available in more than half of the states in the Union. Together, they make a team, the workhorses of civilization. How do you figure that, Frank? Well, Tup, they are not only the sources of nearly all the energy that heats our homes, makes our electricity, and powers our transportation and factories, but they are also the sources of a thousand and one substances essential to everyday living. For example? When the right kind of coal is heated enough to drive off the volatile material, coke for making steel is obtained. Then, too, there are the byproducts of modern chemistry as applied to coal and oil. You mean such things as nylon and dyes? Yes, Tup, everything from nylon and dyes to high explosives and medicine. And here's where the application of modern science comes in. Correct, Tup. Although coal was taken from the ground in North America before the Revolutionary War and oil in the 1880s, modern science and technology were not brought to bear on them until just recently. And what were some of the achievements of modern science? Well, Tup, less than 100 years ago, an engineer solemnly wrote that he doubted if it would pay to haul coal mine cars by animal instead of by hand. He was proved wrong. But coal was mined by hand until about the turn of the century when electrical machines were employed. What held up progress so long, Frank? It was necessary to develop electrical equipment that would not ignite gas or coal dust by arcs or sparks. Until this was accomplished, electrical equipment increased the hazards as much as the efficiency. Today, Dr. Boyd told me, almost two-thirds of the coal dug is loaded by machinery. And while electricity is still the leading cause of explosions, it is due to neglect of known principles, not to ignorance. Let's shift over to petroleum. Was progress equally slow there? It was, Tup. In the early days, wells were drilled too close together and oil was removed too fast. As a result, the gas pressure that helped force the oil out of the ground dropped. Underground water blocked off supply and operators faced the loss of up to 80% of petroleum in the ground. But today, things have changed. Is that it? They have, Tup. Dr. Boyd told me that as a result of research, oil is now sought with precision instruments, wells are regularly spaced, and the speed with which oil is removed is governed by scientific studies to determine the rate that will yield the most petroleum during the life of a given field. How's that problem of gas and underground water handled? In many fields, Tup, the gas or water is forced back into the ground to keep the pressure up. At the same time, research is being carried out to learn more about the natural forces in underground oil-bearing formations. The results of this research should assist us in getting even more of our buried petroleum. Just how important are these two natural resources, Frank? Coal is important because we have more of it than any other fuel and because the coke that feeds our steel industry comes from it. Oil is valuable as a means of transportation. These two substances, including natural gas that is associated with oil, provide about 96% of the fuel energy used in this country. Of the reserves of the three presently developed mineral fuels, coal, petroleum, and natural gas, coal is estimated to make up 95%. Of course, these figures are bound to change. What makes you say that? Well, Tup, some geologists and engineers believe the coal estimates are too high. Then two more petroleum and natural gas will be discovered. Still, Dr. Boyd said that our coal resources are tremendous, enough to last for several hundred years. Will you tell us more about contemporary research in these fields, Frank? Glad to, Tup. In pilot plants in certain states, the Bureau of Mines in cooperation with private industry is demonstrating how to convert coal to gasoline, diesel fuel, lubricants, heavy oils, and other synthetic liquids. In Colorado and Wyoming, the scientists and engineers of the Bureau of Mines are busily digging oil shale from the earth and are experimenting with methods of extracting and refining shale oil so that it can supplement our petroleum supplies. Meanwhile, private industry is producing petroleum products commercially from natural gas. Does the story end there? Oh no, Tup. Remember that coal, oil, and natural gas are basic chemicals. All are complex mixtures of hydrocarbons and as such, they provide the raw material out of which science has learned to make a vast array of chemical products such as plastics, drugs, fertilizers, and a host of others. TNT and synthetic rubber can be made from either coal or oil. Carbon black can be produced from natural gas and petroleum. Aspirin and sulfur tablets are made from coal byproducts, while lipsticks and coal cream contain substances from petroleum. A complete list would take much more time than we have on this program, Tup, and even today's list might be longer next week. I'll bet Dr. Boyd believes that this is only the beginning. He does, Tup. He says that science has barely begun to probe the secrets locked in a lump of coal or a drop of oil. You know, it seems to me, Frank, that most of the advances in the coal and petroleum industries have been quite recent. That's right, Tup. Until 1895, all of our blast furnace coke was made in old-fashioned beehive ovens which wasted the gases and tars and other materials. It was 1919 before byproduct ovens which saved these materials and thus make possible the production of coal chemicals outproduced beehive ovens in this country. The development of petroleum use lagged in a similar manner. In the horse and buggy days, gasoline was considered a nuisance and was poured down the drain. This begins to look like a chain reaction, Frank. I mean, for every advance that science makes in the extraction, processing, and use of coal and oil, a new approach or a new idea pops up. As a matter of fact, Tup, a new discovery often forces another new one. For example, we've seen how coal mine mechanization called for the design of more suitable electric equipment. It also forced the development of modern methods of washing and otherwise preparing coal for market. The demand for motor gasoline and high octane aviation fuel, together with the development of diesel power, joined to dictate more efficient design and operation of petroleum refineries. Then, too, depletion of resources led scientists to learn to treat lower coals so that they might be used in blast furnaces and to the development of synthetic oil available at a reasonable cost. It occurs to me that science has played a role in the newer techniques of using these products and resources after they have been developed or mined. That's a fact, Tup. Science and engineering have given us automatic stokers and oil burners to heat our homes more efficiently and high compression engines to drive our automobiles. Scientists and engineers have worked together to make powdered coal an important industrial fuel, thereby utilizing what was a waste product. Dr. Boyd said that an outstanding example of progress in fuel utilization is the increase in the amount of electricity generated by a ton of coal from 660 kilowatt hours in 1920 to 1,530 in 1947. Then science has contributed to the true conservation of these resources. Right, Tup. Everywhere throughout the nation, chemists, physicists, and other scientists are continuing to find better ways of utilizing our mineral resources. Thank you very much, Frank, for the information you have brought us from Dr. James A. Boyd, director of the United States Bureau of Mines. And to our listeners, may I say that they may obtain a copy of the paper dealing with today's subject by simply dropping a line to Excursions in Science in care of this station and asking for Science Paper 392. That's Science Paper 392. Now it's just about time for Frank to answer the questions you radio friends have sent in, but first, let me tell you not to worry if your question is not used on the air. You see, with the help of the General Electric Research Laboratory, we find the correct answer and send the answer along to you in a personal letter. So you will get an answer. Now, Frank, let's put you to work with this first question from a listener who asks, how much pressure would a wind of, say, 40 miles an hour exert on the side of my automobile? Well, a top of 40-mile wind exerts a pressure of approximately 7 pounds per square foot. An automobile might have an area on the side of about 30 square feet, so the total pressure of such a wind would be about 210 pounds. Okay. And now for a question from an observant lady. She wonders why it is that almost everything created in nature is round, or at least curved, and not square or rectangular. Well, one reason for this might be that a sphere has the smallest surface for a given volume, and a drop of liquid which is suspended free from the pull of gravity would assume a spherical shape because of surface tension which tends to reduce the surface area as much as possible. However, raindrops falling in the air show a wide variety of shapes departing greatly from the spherical. Well, do most things in nature have curved shapes? I've never given a great deal of thought to it, Tup, but I can think of a number of things just offhand that do not have this curved shape. For example, salt and sugar crystals are cubic, while quartz crystal has the shape of a hexagonal prism surmounted by a pyramid. Even snowflakes develop curved surfaces only when they start to melt. Frank, a radio friend of ours, dropped some onion peelings into the flame of her gas range, and the flame immediately became very bright. What caused this? To begin with, in the burner of the gas range, air is mixed with gas so that there is a plentiful supply of oxygen, and the gas, which consists of carbon and hydrogen, burns to form carbon dioxide and water. This is the flame that gives the familiar pale blue light. Then what happens with the onion skins? Well, if there's not enough oxygen, burning is incomplete, and particles of carbon are liberated. These are heated white hot and give the flame a yellow or white light. So what happened in the mystery of the onion peels was that when the peel was dropped on the burner, part of it burned away, leaving black carbon. This carbon, heated by the flame, gave the white light that our friend noticed. Incidentally, this is really quite a familiar effect, Tup. A similar idea was used in the Wellsback gas mantles. The mantle consisted not of carbon, but of salts of thorium, and it was heated to incandescence by a blue gas flame. Well, you're having plenty of opportunities today, Frank, for helping the ladies, and this lady asks for the cause of the crackling and popping sound from burning wood. In the wood, Tup, there are numerous tiny cells which contain moisture. The wood burns, and heat turns the moisture into expanding steam. The steam bursts from the cells with considerable force, making the number of small explosions which we hear as the familiar crackling and popping noises. And I think that will just about do it for today, Frank. We'll have to make room for others. Many thanks for all the information you have supplied for this get-together, and please drop around for the next broadcast. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question of a scientific nature, why not send that question on to us? You see, with the help of the General Electric Research Laboratory or some other equally reputable scientific organization, we find the correct answer and send that answer on to you in a personal letter. Just address your questions to Excursions in Science in care of the station to which you are listening. Also, if you'd like a copy of the science paper dealing with today's subject, just ask for science paper 392. Remember, Excursions in Science in care of this station and science paper 392. Be sure to include your name and address. And now, this is Howard Tupper and Frank Singheiser saying goodbye until the next Excursions in Science program.
