At this time, due to regulations by the Federal Communications Commission, your city station will conclude the program to which you are listening. We suggest you tune your FM receiver to WNYC FM at 93.9 megacycles for additional hours of listening pleasure. We now conclude this presentation by the municipal broadcasting system. Your city station, WNYC, operating on an assigned frequency of 830 kilocycles by authority of the Federal Communications Commission, is now compelled to leave the air. The voice of New York City has been at your service, bringing you the finest in music, the latest news, and public service programs of special interest. We invite you to tune to WNYC FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial for other fine programs. Your city station operates under the direct supervision of Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere, with Seymour N. Siegel as director. And so, until 7 o'clock this morning, the voice of New York City bids you good night. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. LEDs you good 밤? The music of New York City bids you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The plates you good night. The music of New York City bids you good night. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End At this time, due to regulations by the Federal Communications Commission, your city station will conclude the program to which you are listening. We suggest you tune your FM receiver to WNYC-FM at 93.9 megacycles for additional hours of listening pleasure. We now conclude this presentation by the municipal broadcasting system. Your city station, WNYC, operating on an assigned frequency of 830 kilocycles by authority of the Federal Communications Commission, is now compelled to leave the air. The voice of New York City has been at your service, bringing you the finest in music, the latest news, and public service programs of special interest. We invite you to tune to WNYC-FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial for other fine programs. Your city station operates under the direct supervision of Mayor Vincent R. Impeleteri, with Seymour N. Siegel as director. And so until 7 o'clock this morning, the voice of New York City bids you good night. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The End The End The End And so until 7 o'clock this morning, the voice of New York City bids you good night. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Bringing you the finest in music, the latest news and public service programs of special interest We invite you to tune to WNYC-FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial for other fine programs Your city station operates under the direct supervision of Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere With Seymour N. Siegel as Director And so until 7 o'clock this morning, the voice of New York City bids you good night Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Oh jeyischeחcting passiert New York City des All The End The End The Endkeep Your city station, WNYC, operating on an assigned frequency of 830 kilocycles by authority of the Federal Communications Commission, is now compelled to leave the air. The voice of New York City has been at your service, bringing you the finest in music, the latest news and public service programs of special interest. We invite you to tune to WNYC-FM at 93.9 megacycles on your FM dial for other fine programs. Your city station operates under the direct supervision of Mayor Vincent R. Impeliteri, with Seymour N. Siegel as director. And so until 7 o'clock this morning, the voice of New York City bids you good night. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. Thank you. KATE ELECTRONICS KATE ELECTRONICS KATE ELECTRONICS NAS Studio The End
