Thank you very much for your kind words. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure to have the opportunity of speaking to you this afternoon on the subject of trial by jury. The jury system is one of our oldest institutions in the administration of justice. It has been used for centuries, both in criminal prosecutions and in the trial of cases at common law. The constitutions of the United States and of all of the states, including our own state of New York, contain explicit provisions designed to protect the right of the citizen to trial by jury in cases where that right is appropriate or has here to for been used. You have heard an able address by presiding Justice Martin of the appellate division on the subject of the grand jury in the first of this series of addresses on the jury system. You have also heard a clear and convincing statement from District Attorney Dewey that must have aroused your interest in the trial or petty jury. I want to call your attention, in addition to what they have said, to certain features of the jury system and its importance to us all. The jury system remains in full force and effect today. In a large number of actions at law such as those on contract, damages for wrong, negligence, and invasions of the rights of person, reputation, or property. It also is the method of trial for the more important criminal prosecutions. There is no doubt in the minds of all of us, trial by jury is the accepted and expected means by which cases at law will be ordinarily determined, and by which anyone accused of serious crime will be tried. The same thought was in the minds of the framers of our constitutions and has remained so to the present time. Let us see first what are the foundations set forth in the fundamental law upon which trial by jury stands today. The provisions of Article III of the Constitution of the United States and the Sixth and Seventh Amendments to the Constitution govern proceedings in the federal courts. Article III prescribes that the trial of all crimes, except in cases of impeachment, shall be by jury. The Sixth Amendment provides that in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the state and district wherein the crime shall have been committed. He is also to have the right to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation, to be confronted with the witnesses against him, to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, and to have the assistance of counsel for his defense. The Seventh Amendment deals with civil cases in the federal courts. It is there laid down that in suits of common law, where the value in controversy exceeds $20, the right of trial by a jury shall be preserved. And no fact tried by a jury shall be otherwise re-examined in any court of the United States than according to the rules of the common law. These provisions, I should repeat, relate to matters in the courts of the United States. We may pause for a moment, before discussing juries in the New York State courts, to note these provisions of our national Constitution. Not only is the trial of offenses against the United States to be by jury in all criminal prosecutions, but it is to be a speedy and public trial, so that the accused will not be subject to the abuses of the Middle Ages when those under suspicion might be imprisoned for years without trial, or when Star Chamber proceedings made oppression and injustice possible. Moreover, the jury must be an impartial jury of the district where the crime was committed. This prohibits trial by a biased or partial jury. And in addition, the accused is entitled to notice of the charge against him and to his day in court and to have the assistance of counsel. In civil cases in the federal courts, the right to trial by jury is preserved in all but minor common law cases, those of $20 or less, and the decision of the jury on the facts is to be binding and not to be reexamined in any other federal court, except in the cases whereby common law it might be reversed or otherwise disposed of. Juries are not required by the Constitution in causes in equity, admiralty, or bankruptcy. Turning now to our own Constitution of the State of New York, which governs cases in our state courts, Article 1, Section 2 provides that the trial by jury in all cases in which it has been heretofore used shall remain inviolate forever. But a jury trial may be waived by the parties in all civil cases in the manner to be prescribed by law. The legislature has prescribed by law accordingly, and as a result, in many cases in New York City, it may be waived unless demanded. It may not be waived in criminal prosecutions. An attempt to allow waiver of a jury trial by the defendant in all criminal cases was defeated by the people at the last general election. This shows the widespread belief on the part of the public in the value and importance of trial by jury in criminal prosecutions. The Constitution now further says that the legislature may provide, however, by law that a verdict may be rendered by not less than five-sixths of the jurymen constituting a jury in any civil case. This last sentence was added by an amendment approved at the general election in 1935, effective on January 1, 1936. It is confined to civil cases. In criminal cases, the verdict still must be unanimous. You will notice that by the state constitution, the right to trial by jurisdiction, the right to trial by jurisdiction, the right to trial by jurisdiction, those cases in which it has been heretofore used. And it is for this reason that there need not be trial by jury in cases in equity or in certain other special kinds of actions like mandamus and others where the right did not exist in this state prior to the adoption of the Constitution of 1846. Where, however, as in the great majority of common law cases, the right did exist before that time, it cannot be denied by the legislature or by the court. And this applies also to cases of a similar character arising under statutes passed after the adoption of the Constitution. It is true that there are certain exceptions, and I will not take up your time with a detailed discussion of them. Amendments to the state constitution in the past 25 years have permitted awards of workman's compensation without a jury trial and have also recognized or established a trial without juries of misdemeanors by the courts of special sessions and various local courts and of special matters by the children's and domestic relations courts. Generally speaking, the changes have been few and far between, and trial by jury remains today the most vital and important function of government and the administration of justice in which the citizen is called upon to play a leading part in times of peace. The trial by jury to which our Constitution refers is a trial by a common law jury of 12. It used to be 12 men. But now that women may also serve, it is important that they should know something about it, and I hope that there are women listening tonight and that they will be interested and will try to learn as much as they can about this great institution in the proper and just conduct of which they may now take their part. It was said by the Court of Appeals as long ago as 1873 in an important criminal case that any act of the legislature providing for the trial otherwise than by a common law jury composed of 12 men, today it might be men and women, would be unconstitutional and void. And any act requiring or authorizing such trial by a jury, partial and biased against either party, would be a violation of one of the essential elements of the jury referred to in and secured by the Constitution. This right of trial by jury, protected and preserved by our federal and state constitutions, is not only one of the fundamental rights of the citizen, but it is a safeguard to every citizen against oppression, the will or whim of rulers, and the imposition of injustice. Our history, old and recent, is full of cases that lead us to be thankful for the existence of the jury system. Now let us see what this system is and how it works. When the jury is impaneled and then sworn to well and truly try the issue and to render a true and just verdict according to the evidence, the trial has begun. But this is not the first step in the jury system. In New York County, the Commissioner of Jurors has lists of trial jurors qualified for jury service and trial jurors are selected by him. The names are placed in boxes and he or his assistant, county clerk or his deputy, and one or more judges of the Court of Record must attend to witness and assist in the drawing, which must be done publicly without seeing the name on the ballot. Only citizens and residents of the county owning real or personal property of the value of $250 or their wives or husbands between the ages of 21 and 70 can qualify as trial jurors. They must be of sound mind and character and in addition to other requirements, able to read and write English. The persons drawn must be given notice to attend, with which notice they must comply, and it is from the panel so formed that the jury is chosen subject to the right of challenge by either party within the limits prescribed by law. At the opening of a term of a Court of Record, the clerk prepares the ballots containing the names of each person returned to the term as a trial juror and deposits them in the ballot box. When a case is brought to trial, the clerk draws as many of the ballots as are sufficient to form a jury. After the jury is discharged, the ballots with their names are again returned to the box and the same course pursued as often as an issue is brought to trial by jury. When the jury is sworn, they are ready to exercise their power of deciding the facts in lawsuits between individuals or in prosecutions of crime as the case may be. It may be a case where the defendant's property is at stake or his life or liberty. There come before juries all the wide range of the business, commercial, and personal affairs of life. There is no drama comparable to that of an important trial involving life, liberty, or reputation. The jurors witness the sharp contest of wits between counsel, the narration of events by witnesses, their cross-examination, and the hopes and aspirations of the parties. They see the court presiding over the trial and hear the rulings on questions of law. They listen to the arguments of the attorneys for both sides when the cases for and against are summed up and every fact or implication that may help dissuade them for one side or the other expounded and analyzed. They hear the judge's charge when he explains the law that must guide them in reaching their conclusions. And when they retire to the jury room to try to reach a just verdict, the juror who has not served before has had his eyes opened to what is meant by trial by jury. Their own discussions in the jury room they share with no one else. It is here that after the restrictions and rules of the courtroom, the jury exercises their right of discussion and free debate. Many a lawyer would be glad to know what goes on in the privacy of the jury room. The jury, having reached its verdict, returns to the courtroom to hear the verdict announced by the foreman. And when each juror has been finally excused from further duty for the term, he can feel that he has fulfilled his community obligation. When we realize that in the last analysis, all of our rights, our property, happiness, and liberty may depend on the verdict of a jury, we do not need to be told of the vital part that trial by jury plays in the community. After a pause for station identification, this is the municipal broadcasting system. New York City's own station, WNYC. We continue with the third in this series of addresses upon the jury system, its history, its importance, and the civic duty of jury service. Our speaker, Colonel Cornelius W. Wickersham, will give you the second part of his talk on trial by jury. Colonel Wickersham. District Attorney Dewey was correct when he said that everyone should serve as a juror. If you won't serve on your neighbor's jury and he won't serve on yours, how can either of you expect the system to work? For success, it depends upon reciprocity, a sense of mutual duty to each other to serve on the jury. It is not only a sense of duty that should make those who are qualified respond to the call to serve, it is plain common sense that they should do so. For they never know when they themselves may be not jurors but parties and the first to complain if the jury is not composed of persons having the required characteristics. In the words of the statute, they must be intelligent, of sound mind, and good character. Throughout English and American history, the jury has been a defender and bulwark of liberty. Read again the case of the seven bishops and James II when the ruler, his government, and his judges brought every influence of autocratic power to bear to obtain a conviction of the seven leading bishops of England for treason because they refused to give up their religious liberties at the behest of the king and the jury, at the risk of life and limb, brought in a unanimous verdict of acquittal. You will find in later times many other cases where juries determined to uphold the right of the citizen have refused to bow to executive force or pressure and by their verdict have maintained rights and liberties that are guaranteed to us today by our Constitution. and you can read again in our own times of the cases where a jury has declined to bow to popular clamor and has accomplished justice by saving the innocent in a criminal prosecution or by reaching a just verdict in a civil cause. The jury system may not be perfect. Few human agencies are. It is, however, the best system that our experience has been able to evolve. But in order to work it must have the support of public opinion and of the community at large. The jury is to weigh the evidence, to dissect the arguments pro and con, to analyze the facts and to reach an impartial verdict on the evidence. To do this it must be composed of men and women who are alert, intelligent and responsive to their public duties. We should not forget what Mr. Chote said after his long experience with juries. For many years he was the leading trial lawyer at the New York Bar. This is what he said as quoted in one of Mr. Wellman's entertaining books. Quoting, The truth is that the jury system is so fixed as an essential part of our political institutions. It has proved itself to be such an invaluable security for the enjoyment of liberty and property for so many centuries. It is so justly appreciated as the best and perhaps the only known means of admitting the people to a share in maintaining their wholesome interest in the administration of justice. It is such an indispensable factor in educating them in their personal and civil rights. It affords such a school and education in the law to the profession itself and is so embedded in our constitutions which declare that it shall remain forever inviolate requiring an amendment to alter it that there may be no substantial ground for fear that any of us will live to see the people consent to give it up. I am still quoting from Mr. Choate. Mr. Choate continued, I cherish as the result of a life's work now nearing its end that the old-fashioned trial by jury of twelve honest and intellectual citizens remains today all suggested innovations and amendments to the contrary in the best and safest practical manner for the determination of facts as the basis of judgment of courts. Tamper with it should be discouraged as disastrous to the public welfare. May I add that the whole community will gain by response to Mr. Watson's effort to improve the administration of justice by increasing interest in this system which exists for the protection of all of us. In conclusion, let me strongly urge you to serve on a jury when you have the opportunity. If it should be your first appearance in the jury box, you may look forward to an interesting and instructive experience. In addition to that, you will be engaged in the performance of an important public duty by taking your part in the administration of justice. You have been listening to an address by Colonel Cornelius W. Wickersham, President of the Joint Conference on Legal Education of the State of New York, which is the third in a series of addresses upon the jury system, its history, its importance, and the civic duty of jury service. The subject of today's talk was trial by jury. The series was arranged by County Clerk Archibald R. Watson to stimulate public interest in jury service and the obligation of jury service as a civic duty. Many of you will remember that the introductory address of the series was delivered by presiding Justice Martin on April 14th and the second address by District Attorney Dewey. Our radio audience will be interested to know that the address next Wednesday at 6 p.m. will be delivered by Mayor LaGuardia. Later addresses in the series will occur on Wednesdays at 6 p.m., concerning which particulars will be announced. This is the municipal broadcasting system. New York City's own station, WNYC. We... It's a smallECossing of the Matters here Suze today. Thanks, to the Course Moon took 30 cents on Monday. This is an time. I'll catch struck how much on Tuesday by Maykey I'll see you today. The individuals and kung trouver on Thursday do other Panther nd who is