Good afternoon New Yorkers, this is Fire Prevention Week and from the steps of City Hall Plaza your municipal station is ready to bring you a gala celebration of New York City's awarding of medals for the winning essays on fire prevention by the public and parochial school children of the five boroughs of New York City. And now we take you to the speaker's platform and bring you the Honorable Frank J. Quayle Fire Commissioner of the City of New York who will act as your chairman. Salute to the flag by the school children. Mr. Gartman of the Board of Education please. Attention. Salute. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the country over which it stands. One nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The flag of the country. Oh, say can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Those broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight For the ramparts we watched Was so gallantly streaming When the rocket's red glare Of the perilous fight Of the perilous fight In the perilous fight Gave proof through the night That a flag was still there When the perilous fight That a flag was still there When the perilous fight That a flag was still there O'er day the perilous fight That a flag of the perilous fight And a flag of the perilous dealing When the perilous fight Has a flag of the perilous fight Yeah, my God of the perilous fight And a flag of the perilous fight Of the perilous fight I congratulate you boys and girls, medal winners, for your excellent essays on the very important subject of safeguarding the home against fire. In fact, all of the children of our schools, both public and parochial, who participated in this contest are worthy of the highest praise for the fine papers they presented this year. I would be remiss indeed did I fail to express my deep sense of appreciation to your parents and teachers for the aid, encouragement, and training they have given you, as is evidenced by the number of contestants and the quality of the articles presented in this contest. You have been instructed in and you have learned well the all-important lesson of fire's peril and the ordinary everyday means of eliminating fire hazards. It has been well said that the best stopped fire is the one that was prevented by care, by alertness, and diligence. We have seen all too frequently the destruction that has been wrought by fire, the lives that have been taken, and the valuable property that has been lost. In these days when homes and dwellings are at such a high premium, we must redouble our efforts in searching out any factor that might be the cause of a fire and make certain that it is obviated. Make a habit of this training you have received in fire prevention. It will stay with you and become an integral part of your daily lives. I need not tell you how valuable this lesson is and having mastered it in youth, it will remain with you all time. It is very encouraging to see that the great American tradition, our children are being so well trained in civic mindedness and a participation in our great municipal family. These medals that are being awarded to you will be a constant reminder that your homes must be protected against fire. Further, they will serve as a badge indicating that you are an active citizen of the community, the City of New York. To bring home to you more forcibly the cooperation that exists between our city, its various departments, the ordinary citizen and the business, civic, religious, social and industrial organizations which are part of its overall makeup, I wish to point out that these medals were provided for by the New York Board of Fire Underwriters. I want to make a special appeal to the citizens of New York City in general. If every man, woman and child living in New York City will make fire prevention a living thing, an accepted practice at home and at business. Not only will their efforts bring untold rewards to themselves in added safety and security, but the fire department will be in a better position to make New York City a safer place in which to reside. Selection now by the fire department band, This is My Country. Selection now by the fire department, This is My Country. Selection now by the fire department, This is My Country. level 15N My heart is filled with love for all of these I only know I swell with pride And deep within my breath I dream to see all the glory Thank the breeze Oh glory, thank the breeze This is my country Land of my birth This is my country Grand as on earth I bless thee my allegiance America love all For this is my country To have Andrew home Ladies and gentlemen Our school children It's my privilege to present to you His honor the mayor, William O'Dwyer Mr. Quayle Children Reverend friends Teachers Parents All of us here at City Hall are very proud To have you here today as our guests Glad to have you come to City Hall So many people come to City Hall that Have troubles in their minds when they come That trouble us trying to solve those troubles And every now and then We have a beautiful picture Of the children coming from the schools over here For the purpose of getting medals And that makes you happy And it makes us very happy To have you here And to see that you get the reward For the work that you have so well done You know This is the seat Of your city's government It's a historical place It's been here for a long time Many generations of people Who have fought And bled And struggled To give us To give us A great nation And place In our hands The responsibility Of turning it over to you As you grow up And become Young women And young men To hand it over to you A little better Than it was given to us And that is a hard struggle But we hope And pray to God To have the strength And the help To be able to do just that for you Now there are many ways In which the city can be made better Take this occasion here today Today we are actually engaging in a celebration Which is much more than just handing you a medal It is a celebration That you have accepted as a part of your obligation to the community To take an interest in these costly and dangerous fires That make living in the city a hard thing And you know 50,000 fires Means 50,000 times All over the city in one year That the apparatus runs Children Every time Every time That apparatus runs Whether there is a fire or not It means that the lives of the firemen Are in danger Firemen who have homes and children Beautiful children like you are And the danger is When these accidents happen That some of those poor firemen will never come back And the poor children will never see their daddy again That's one thing about a fire Now I know it My own brother Was killed going to a fire Worse than that He was killed going to a false alarm And of the 50,000 runs that the department made Last year 12,000 runs were false alarms Of course you weren't interested in your essays in that You were interested But what you had in mind was How can we take such precaution That the fires will not occur at all And if there is no fire Then there is no run And there is no danger to the firemen Or danger to anybody Now your homes Must be protected Not only your home But your little neighbors home Everybody's home must be protected And every time you have a fire You have somebody's life in danger And we don't want that in our city So when you come along And take an interest in this So splendidly And distinguish yourselves By those fine essays that you have written That means that you have given thought And consideration to the subject And that you have an understanding Even though you're very young But you're bright And you have an understanding of what this means And that children is a great contribution To your city That is one way in which We will be helped when we walk out of City Hall That we can say at least in this respect We have made our city a better city for those who follow Now God bless you everyone Keep it up When you get your medal today That medal must not mean the end of your work And your interest That means that you must Every time you look at that medal Or somebody speaks to you about that medal That means that you must keep the work up Continue that interest in this subject And if you do Other children will do the same thing And the tiny little ones who are coming along Will learn from you And we'll have a continued interest In this very important subject Now I have unfortunately I must leave And something else has come up of great importance That I have to take care of And I'm going to ask you to excuse me if I leave And I'll also ask Commissioner Frank Quayle To present in my name And in the name of the city And all the people in it To present to each one of you The medals that you have won God bless you, every one of you Goodbye Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you If the chief of department will arrange For the formation of the children I should be exceedingly pleased to step forward And start awarding these medals And now while Mayor O'Dwyan Commissioner Quayle Are giving out the awards to these school children The fire department band of the city of the city And now while Mayor O'Dwyan And Commissioner Quayle Are giving out the awards to these school children The fire department band of the city of New York Strikes up a lively selection couple of Wonj Thanks Mark Fathers Come on 1, 2, 3 men ... 4 men ... 5 men ... Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir. Come on, sir.