Good afternoon. Through the facilities of New York's Municipal Broadcasting FM station, we bring you the second phase of the New York State Narcotics Investigation, conducted by the State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein. We are speaking to you from hearing room numbers 1 and 2 of the State Office Building at 80 Center Street in downtown Manhattan. As you know, the first part of these hearings was conducted from the same quarters last June and was intended to ascertain what conditions existed in narcotics traffic and addiction here in New York City. During the interim, the Attorney General's staff has been engaged in seeking some solution to the general problem. Assisting Mr. Goldstein this afternoon will be Sidney Tartikoff, the Assistant Attorney General, Ben Gim, a Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and we understand that there will be two witnesses at least, as well as some tape recordings. You'll hear from a state narcotics agent, Joseph D'Ambrose, who was also here during June, and a certain medical doctor, Dr. Pfeffer, about whom we have very few, if any, details. Yesterday marked the reopening of these public hearings in the Attorney General's investigation of the narcotic problem. The testimony yesterday centered attention on the inadequacy of present-day methods of treating and rehabilitating young drug users. Several tape-recorded interviews with teenage addicts were presented to show how easily they slipped back into the use of drugs after hasty so-called cures and offering suggestions for improvement of treatment. Assistant Attorney General Ben Gim introduced statistics showing that 1,179 persons had been sentenced in New York City during the first nine months of 1951 for narcotics possession or use or sale. That's as compared to 1,031 for all of last year and 281 for 1946. Mr. Gim said the year's figure probably will be 50% higher than 1950 and 500% higher than the year 1946. Dr. Paul Zimmerling, another witness, the head of the Bellevue Hospital Division of Adolescent Narcotics Delinquents and a senior psychiatrist at that institution, said he had about 40 boy addicts under his aegis this year. He'd learned from them, he said, that in most cases the inducement to take drugs comes from curiosity. He said the boy addicts coming under his care were not of a gangster or hoodlum type and that they were not antisocial. They came from every strata of society, he added. And a direct quote, they do have one common feature. They are nice kids, not aggressive, but gentle and gracious. They become hostile, Dr. Zimmerling explained, only when they cannot obtain drugs. The teenage addicts, said Dr. Zimmerling, can be saved if caught at the beginning of his addiction. But it has been virtually impossible to cure them after they have persisted in the use of drugs over a long period of time. Considering the lack of facilities at Bellevue and Kings County Hospital, said Dr. Zimmerling, the service to these young addicts is good, but not as good as could be done with more adequate facilities. If the facilities were improved, more of these boys could be saved, and those are his words. As an example of the ease with which young addicts, after the so-called cold turkey cures, that is, the complete withdrawal of the drugs, slip back into the use of narcotics, the Attorney General offered tape-recorded testimony of a 20-year-old girl who had been interviewed the day before her voluntary visit for a cure to the United States Public Health Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. This girl said that she had been arrested for drug addiction in March of this year in the state of New Jersey and had been given the cold turkey treatment, sudden withdrawal of all narcotics, and released the following April as cured. She began using narcotics again immediately upon her release, she said, because she had no strong motor for giving it up. Now, however, she said she is to be married to a good man, wants to live a happy life with him, and is taking the thorough treatment offered by the Lexington Hospital. Incidentally, the director of radio station WNYC and WNYC-FM, Mr. Seymour N. Siegel, would like to have your reactions to these drug investigation broadcasts. If you do wish to write us and comment, the address is WNYC-FM, New York 7, New York, care of the director. After yesterday's recess, Mr. Tartikoff, Assistant Attorney General, introduced a tape recording on which he himself acted as the interviewer. We described the content of that just a moment ago. Our next witness was Dr. Marie Niswander, a psychiatrist. She said she was assigned in 1946 to the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky, and was in charge of the women's division during her one year there. She acted as psychiatrist and had to do some surgical work as well, she said. Between the years of 1947 and 1949, Dr. Niswander practiced psychiatry at the Disturbed Women's Ward at Bellevue, and at present she practiced psychiatry at a well-known clinic. Dr. Niswander divided drug addicts, under testimony by Mr. Tartikoff, into those who wanted to get well and those who did not. The people who did not, she claimed, were that way because they took the easier way out and fell into a habit. The rate of recidivism by such people, that is the rate upon which, the rate of their return, that is, to institutions was very high, the doctor claimed, at least at Lexington, Kentucky, according to her experience. She said that the major harm of allowing drug addicts to roam free is that oftentimes they convert others to drugs and they restart other drug addicts anew on drugs. They also create a market for drugs and they are potential criminals. Asked, why does drug addiction continue, she said that the drug addicts have lost their self-respect and will do anything to get drugs. Their sense of value has deteriorated. The Attorney General has entered the room while we are talking and we see that he is almost ready to start proceedings. With him on the platform once again are Mr. Ben Gimm, Mr. Sidney Tartikoff, and Joseph Misbach, who is the confidential assistant to the Attorney General. Proceedings are just about ready to get underway. He is speaking at the present time to Erwin Sabelson, who is the press representative, and going to pick up the gavel very shortly. I might mention once again that you are listening to the second phase of the New York State narcotics investigation from the state office building in downtown Manhattan. under Amy by not Fred a book, There seems to be some delay, and we're still standing by for the Attorney General to start proceedings. In the meantime, we might read you his opening statement, at least portions of it. He said, quote, The first order of business was to ascertain the existing conditions, and that we did in New York City last June. Since then, my staff has been engaged in finding the solution. Today, we shall treat with the problem of rehabilitation of the addict, which falls into four groups, the teenage addict, the male prisoner addict, the female prisoner, and the confirmed addict. And now, the Attorney General. The state and our carding's hearing is now in order. Mr. Tartikoff? Mr. Attorney General, I would like to call as our first witness this afternoon, Mr. Joseph D'Ambrose, of the New York State Department of Health, Bureau of Narcotic Control. Mr. Attorney General, Mr. D'Ambrose, has already been sworn in the earlier hearings, it will not be necessary to administer a further oath at this time. Mr. D'Ambrose, would you give your full name, and would you spell your last name for us, please? Joseph D'Ambrose, state narcotic investigator, D-E capital A-N-B-R-O-S-E. Mr. D'Ambrose, you have been employed by the New York State Department of Health, Bureau of Narcotic Control, for how long? For the past ten years. And primarily, what have the efforts of your bureau been with regard to the surveillance on narcotic drugs? The primary function of the State Department of Health, Bureau of Narcotic Control, in this state is on narcotic drugs, legally produced and distributed for the care of the sick and injured. In other words, as I understand it, your department maintains a check or surveillance over those narcotic drugs which are legitimately available for medical use. That is correct. And does your department license the manufacturers, wholesalers, and distributors of these narcotic drugs and the Bureau licenses firms engaged in the manufacturing and wholesaling of drug business and certifies approval to hospitals, laboratories, and dispensaries which are so engaged in the legitimate possession and use of narcotic drugs. Now, how many permits or licenses are issued by your bureau during the course of a normal year to wholesalers, manufacturers, and other distributors? Approximately 750 or so licensed industrials in the state of New York. That's just in the state of New York. That is correct, sir. Now, in addition to that, does your department maintain a check over all others who have a legal right to possess narcotics? That is correct, sir. Now, who is included in the rest of this group who are legitimately entitled to have narcotic drugs? So-called registered or licensed persons, professional people, including doctors, dentists, veterinarians, and pharmacists. And that takes in the entire family of those who administer to the sick, both the human sick and the animal sick in this state. That is correct, sir. Mr. DeAmbrose, would you keep your voice up just a little, please? No. Now, including those who are licensed as manufacturers and distributors and counting those who are professionally engaged in the care and treatment of the sick, how many in all are there in the state of New York who are legitimately entitled to have access to and possession of narcotic drugs? In excess of 40,000 persons. So that there are in this state legitimately dealing in, possessing, and prescribing narcotic drugs upwards of 40,000 licensed persons. That is correct, sir. Now, does your bureau from time to time issue rules and regulations which govern the manner in which these medical drugs are maintained and dispensed? Our department does. Now, specifically, Mr. DeAmbrose, prior to 1941, have we had a problem involving narcotic drugs and narcotic use in the state and in the country to your knowledge? Definitely. When did this problem begin to take hold? In my own humble mind, I believe it was after the enactment of the Harrison Narcotic Drug Law. That would be 1914. That is correct, sir. In other words, prior to the time when the federal government regulated the sale and distribution of narcotics, and at a time, therefore, when it was freely available to anybody, we had no problem which necessarily invited the attention of law enforcement agencies. That is correctly stated. But after the Harrison Act was passed in 1914, you couldn't buy narcotic drugs except under certain specified limitations laid down in the federal law. that is so. Now, I'd like you to direct your attention specifically to the period of time in this state between 1941 and 1945. Now, is there anything during those war years which affected the picture of your problem and the problem of other enforcement agencies with regard to narcotics? Particularly during the war years of 1941 to 1945, there was a marked decrease as reported by the federal customs agent and the federal narcotic bureau. Now, why was there a decrease in incidents reported between 1941 and 1945 of street trafficking in narcotics? Well, definite restrictions were placed on shipping and traveling on ships during the war years thereby obviating the illicit smuggling of narcotic drugs into the country. In other words, during the war years when you couldn't freely travel on the boats and when the boats were all under the control of the war shipping board, the Navy, the Coast Guard and the Maritime Service, was there a decline in smuggling activities? Definitely so. And did that result in a decline of the availability of heroin and other narcotics on the street? Definitely so. So that the war in and of itself compelled a decline in the drug traffic? That is correct, sir. Now, while that was happening during the war, did your bureau make some observations with regard to what the drug peddler was doing or how the drug peddler attempted to maintain his habit while he couldn't get an ample supply of drugs from abroad? Now, when the illegitimate and smuggled sources of drugs were declining, this is what happened according to the reports received at the New York State Bureau of Narcotic Control. One, the number of forged or fraudulent prescriptions for narcotic drugs presented and filled at drug stores in this state rose considerably. Two, unsuspected physicians were imposed upon by dope-hungry addicts or users who, through pretense, misrepresentations and fraud, obtained prescriptions for narcotic drugs. Three, hospital supply cabinets were broken into and substantial quantities of narcotic drugs stolen. Four, drug stores were likewise invaded and robbed. In some instances, the addicts stole only the narcotics from drug stores. Cash and other valuables which were equally available at that time or at the time of the burglars were not touched or taken. In other words, Mr. D'Ambrose, do I state it fairly that when the street supply, when the street supply had diminished because of the shutdown of shipping during the war years that there was an increased attack made by the narcotic addict and the narcotic peddler on the legitimate sources of supply available in hospitals, drug stores, and pharmacies? That is correct, sir. And did the caseload of your own bureau rise substantially during these war years? Definitely so. And that's because your activity was, in the main, concerned with watching the so-called legitimate sources of narcotic drugs? That is correctly stated. Now, what happened after the war was over and after 1945? After the war ended, normal shipping activities were resumed. And therefore, the quantities of illicit narcotic drugs smuggled into the country increased. Then they are making it possible for the user to obtain a supply from the street peddler. In other words, once the shipping into this country resumed into normal activity, the illegitimate sources of heroin were right back on the street where they were before 1941 and before the war. That is so. And when the street sources of heroin supply were returned to the narcotic addict and peddler after 1945, did the activity that you've just described of a tax made on pharmacies, doctors, and hospitals that debt diminished? Very much so. Now, prior to 1951, were you personally conversant with the street price of a cap of heroin in New York City? I was. What was the normal price paid in the illegitimate market for a cap of heroin in the early part of 1951 or in the latter part of 1950? About a dollar per capsule. Now, was there an increase in police activity starting in the latter part of 1950 and continuing through all of 1951 down to the present time? As a result of increased activity directed against the street peddler by police, our own bureau, and the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. Well, what happened to the street price of heroin in the last few months? The street price has increased considerably after this such action by our bureau and other police enforcement agencies. Well, what's the price of a cap of heroin in the street today? The average price of a capsule of heroin today is about $2. Now, why is that? Because of the fact that the heat placed by the various agencies, law enforcement agencies, has been so much greater lately and because of the fact that so many peddlers have been taken out of business or circulation that the average peddler now feels he should get more money for his merchandise. And he's moved up the price of street heroin. Definitely so. Now, how has that reflected itself on the sources of medical supply? We now find a condition where increased reports of thefts, robberies, and armed holdup have taken place in pharmacies and in doctor's offices. In other words, Mr. D'Ambrose, are you now in 1951 experiencing again what you observed in 1941 to 1945 when the street supply was low? That is right, sir. You're getting an attack again on the legitimate sources of narcotic drugs? That is correctly stated. Now, have you, at my request, made a compilation of the occurrences which have taken place in 1951 which involved holdups of drugstores and doctors? I have, sir. And what will the figures show in the year 1951? Commencing with January 1951, I broke it into two categories, drugstores and doctors. Those are reported thefts and armed holdups. This is just New York City? That is just New York City, sir. As a result of the cases reported to us, we find from January 1st, 1951 to the present time 38 cases of armed holdups or thefts in drugstores and 18 reported cases in doctor's office or in their automobiles. And have you, at my request, further broken down these figures to indicate where these armed robberies, holdups, and thefts are taking place with regard to the county lines of New York City? A breakdown of the figures just quoted by Burroughs shows the following figures. The Bronx, eight cases. In Manhattan, 15 cases. Brooklyn, 21 cases. And in Queens, 12 cases. Now, in the thefts that are taking place in these drugstores and in doctors' offices and holdups of doctors, would you explain to us just how it is that these matters are reported to your bureau? It is required by law, by the, under state law and by federal law, that all robberies, break-ins, thefts, or holdup involving narcotic drugs be reported to this office, or my office rather, in affidavit form so that we may be aware of the condition in that area and concentrate trying to detect the individuals responsible for such activities. Now, Mr. D'Ambrose, for the benefit of the record here, can you give us some illustrations or examples of the kind of activity which you have been talking about which reflects this attack on the legitimate medical sources of narcotic drugs? I can. Not too long ago, not too long ago, within the past 18 months, it was reported to our office that more than 5,000 morphine tablets had been stolen stolen from Rikers Island Hospital. That's the hospital maintained at the Rikers Island Penitentiary. That is correct. And this took place at Rikers Island Penitentiary in the hospital? In the hospital of Rikers Island and substituted for these morphine were placebo tablets. And what is a placebo tablet? Placebo tablets are sugar or milk tablets having no physiological effect on an individual, containing only sugar or milk, and resemble and form in shape to morphine tablets. Mr. D'Ambrose, who was it, and I don't want you to identify the individual, who was it that engineered this theft from the supply at Rikers Island Hospital? Our investigation revealed that a known ex-con who was at that time a trustee of the prison and who was working as a part-time bookkeeper in the pharmacy was the instigator and eventually received all the morphine so stolen from the hospital at Rikers Island. Well, who actually took the 5,000 tablets of morphine out of the hospital supply? A registered pharmacist employed by the City of New York in Rikers Island Hospital. And that employee, this licensed pharmacist, then, as I understand it, took these tablets and turned it over to this convict who was at Rikers Island but who was about to leave Rikers Island his jail sentence having about ended. Is that right? That is correct, sir. And you were personally on this case, were you not, Mr. DeAmbro? That was my investigation. And do you know where the 5,000 tablets of morphine actually ended up? Let me state for the record that during the time that the alleged transaction took place, the ex-con through some friends advanced to sum of $200 to the pharmacist. This took place in the penitentiary at Rikers Island. Subsequently, the pharmacist appropriated for his own use for transfer later to our best 5,000 or more tablets. Eventually, we learned that these tablets were brought to Florida and they're peddled at a rate of about $2 per tablet. Wow. Our best was later apprehended by the Florida authorities and when brought back to New York, pleaded guilty to the charge and admitted that he had obtained the tablets from the pharmacist in Rikers Island and had paid the pharmacist $200 while he was so employed in the institution. And that $200 that he paid to the pharmacist, he in turn converted at a rate of $10,000 for these 5,000 morphine tablets. That is correct, sir. Now, have you an example of this type of attack on the legitimate medical supply that we're referring to insofar as any of our hospitals here in the city of New York are concerned? At the present time, to my mind, comes an individual who in the past six months has been able, by subterfuge, deceit, and other methods, obtain a supply of narcotic drugs far in excess to her particular needs. Investigations show that this young lady, quite a capable registered nurse in the state of New York, and quite a trusted employee in one of the largest hospitals in the city of New York, was placed in a supervisory capacity, and as such had the right to the keys of the narcotic cabinets within the hospital. Our investigation showed she not only appropriated for her own use supplies from every cabinet in the hospital, but in addition, wrote prescriptions, fraudulent prescriptions, on the hospital blanks of the many doctors who are on the staff or on attending patients in the hospital. Actually, in a period of six months, this young lady was arrested three times in three different institutions. Let me understand that, Mr. DeAmbrose. you arrested her in the first institution where you found this shortage. That is correct, sir. And how was her case disposed of the first time? Pending the disposition of her case in the local courts, she... She got employment again as a nurse in another hospital? That is correct, sir. And then did she proceed to do the same thing in the second hospital for which you had arrested her at the time of her employment in the first hospital? No sooner had she gained employment and obtained the keys to the non-cutta cabinets than she started taking tablets again for her own use. And then this happened a third time? That is correct. Within a period of six months? That is correct. In a third hospital in the city of New York? That is correct. The facts in the third investigation reveal that she was not even employed in the hospital, but she knew various nurses in the hospital obtained a uniform of the hospital by the breaking in of the cabinet and used that by telling the nurses in charge, I am the new supervisor of your section, and I want to check your narcotic supplies. By so doing, she would divert her attention and tell this young lady on duty on a particular floor to go down to the ward and take care of so-so. Now, Mr. DeAmbrose, you've given us two illustrations. Is there a further illustration of this attack on the legitimate medical supply that you can demonstrate out of your own experience? In the past month, when I say the past month, I refer specifically to the period of September 1st to October 1st, that has come to our attention many complaints from physicians and pharmacies in Brooklyn, New York, reporting that their blanks had been stolen and narcotic prescriptions were written on these blanks and allegedly signed by the respective doctor. Our investigation, which resulted in the arrest of five individuals, disclosed that this outfit or gang were known to each other and that they, when they realized that they didn't have enough blanks, went to various printers and had blanks printed similar to the ones that they had stolen from the doctor's office. Let me interrupt to get this clear. You mean they got a legitimate blank from a doctor and then went out to an ordinary printer and printed up as many blanks as they wanted? That is correct. Prescription blanks? That is correct. Then what did they do with the prescription blanks which they had printed up? I've been learning the art of writing prescriptions. They wrote each prescription for at least 20 to 25 pan-upon, dilaudid, or morphine depending on whatever drug they wanted and presented the prescriptions to the pharmacist. Later questioning at the time of the arrest and later in Rameshree jail, these persons told me that it was cheaper to get it that way. They could get 25 tablets of morphine for the average price of a dollar quarter from the pharmacist and in order to augment their supply and to keep themselves supplied with a few bucks to buy more, they would sell some of that supply. Now, Mr. DeAmbrose, I take it then that it is your conclusion based on your experience over the past 10 or 11 years as a state narcotic agent that whenever the street supply is diminished that there is an increased attack made on the legitimate sources of supply. That is so. Well, now, have you come to any particular conclusions of your own by reason of the activity which you've observed? My conclusions might be stated this way. The rigid control and enforcement to prevent dope smuggling is a vital element in the solution of our drug problem. It is not, however, the complete solution. My impression during the past 10 years amply demonstrates that whenever the illegitimate source of drugs is vigorously attacked, there is a diverted attack upon the legitimate sources of drugs available for medical use. The addict, so long as he is addicted, will make every effort to obtain and supply drugs to satisfy his addiction. When he cannot be satisfied by drugs obtained through street sources, he will make the same effort to obtain a supply from legitimate sources available through hospitals, doctors, and drug stores. Therefore, we emphasize that the treatment and rehabilitation of an addict is essential to avoid further and continued attacks upon the legitimate sources of supplies and narcotics, which must remain available for the treatment and care of the sick. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Now, Mr. Attorney General, I withdraw. The investigation demonstrates that drug addiction recognizes no racial, economic, or social barrier. The disease spills over all borders, affecting the poor and the rich, the educated and the uneducated, the teenager and the adult. The primary purpose of any rehabilitation program should be twofold. One, to protect the public for a roaming addict is a potential crime carrier. And two, to treat and restore the addict so that he or she may become a useful member of society. Yesterday, we heard the story of two teenagers, one en route to the United States Hospital at Lexington and the other retaining hold and the testimony of a mature woman whose will and faith helped her conquer drug addiction. Now, we offer the recorded testimony of two physicians. Both have had personal experiences with drug addiction. In a spirit of public interest, they have come forward to give us the benefit of their experiences. Their names, naturally, will not be made public. Both have achieved rehabilitation and are now restored to their respective professions. Now, Mr. Attorney General, before I ask you to listen to these tapes and before they are made a part of this record, I should like to advise you that I interrogated the first of these physicians and I should like to briefly give you a resume of his story. You may proceed, Mr. Tardecot. This tape reflects the story of a successful practicing physician whose addiction began in 1942. After a spinal injury, he was given drugs in a hospital for seven months. After discharge, he continued the use of narcotic drugs as a matter of self-medication. He finally became addicted. He entered a private sanitarium and remained there for seven months during 1943. After his discharge, he remained off drugs for four years. A terrific emotional upset caused his reversion in 1947. After two weeks, he felt he had again become addicted. He entered the hospital at Lexington in January 1947. He was given withdrawal therapy for seven days and thus gradually taking off the drug. Following withdrawal, his occupational therapy consisted of work as an automobile mechanic. During work and general activities, he found himself mixed in with prisoners, probationers, and other volunteers. He states that almost all conversation of inmates dealt with the ability to get drugs, the ability to score, and what would be done when they leave in order to get drugs. In April 1947, he left with medical consent, returned to this state and resumed his practice. He stayed clear of drugs until 1948 and he again reverted. He entered a private hospital in September 1949 and remained there for six months. His license to practice medicine in this state, which had been revoked, was restored, and he is now carrying on a full practice. He believes that there is too much preoccupation at Lexington with security and little attention is paid to the psychiatric needs of the patients. Segregation exists only during sleeping. There is altogether too much contact for the novice with criminals and long-standing addicts. No attention is paid to what the addict will do when he leaves the hospital, the most trying period for any addict. It is his opinion that much greater emphasis is needed on the psychiatric side plus a follow-up program of psychiatric attention and aftercare. This counseling service should be able to replace the crutch which the patient needs after his departure from the hospital and should aid him in developing his personality and in planning his future program. And I should like to now have your permission, sir, to have this tape played so that it may be recorded for the record. May so proceed. I am an assistant attorney general on the staff of Nathaniel L. Goldstein, who is the attorney general of the state of New York. I have asked you to come to see me today, doctor, so that I might obtain from you some opinions and reactions which you may have with regard to your treatment at the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky, as well as at another institution where I know you were a patient after your discharge from Lexington. Now, I don't want you to give me your name for the purpose of this particular recording, and I don't want you to identify yourself in any way whatsoever. It is the fact, is it not, that you are duly licensed to practice as a physician in the state of New York? Yes, I am. Yes, sir. How old are you, doctor? 39. And when were you first licensed to practice medicine in New York State? 1937. And without flattering you, doctor, you had a relatively successful practice before your illness, which started, I believe, in 1942. That's right. Now, will you, in your own words, just briefly tell us the history of your illness and the beginnings of your use of narcotic drugs? In 1942, following the spinal injury, I was given drugs in a hospital for a period of several months. following discharge from the hospital, I continued the use of drugs for a period of several months afterwards. Now, your use of drugs after your discharge from the hospital where you were treated for a spinal injury, those drugs were used, were they not, without being prescribed for you by a physician? That's right. You took them on your own as a matter of self-medication? That's right. I take it that was the first mistake you made? Yes, sir. And you continue to use, what particular drug was it? Dilaudid. And Dilaudid is a derivative of opium, is it not? That's right. And for how long did you continue to prescribe for yourself Dilaudid? For about three months. And was it in ever-increasing quantities as you went along? Yes, it was. And did you finally reach the point where you yourself recognized that you had developed a tolerance for the drug and that you had become addicted? Yes, I did. Now, when for the first time did you make an effort to rid yourself of your addiction? In 1943. At that time, did you enter a private sanitarium? Yes, I did. How long did you remain there as a patient? Several months. And I think it was sometime in about 1943 after you were allegedly cured at this sanitarium, you returned to this practice? Yes, I did. Now, when after 1943, or how long rather, after your discharge from this sanitarium in 1943, did you revert to the taking of drugs? About four years. So there was a four-year interval during which you were away from the use of narcotics? Yes. Now, was there any particular factor which in about 1947 acted as a compulsion to you to return to the use of drugs? a terrific emotional upset together with an illness in 1947. And at that time, the drugs which you used in 1947, which you again started to use in 1947, were they drugs which were self-administered? That is, they weren't prescribed for you by some physician, were they? That's right. and what was the drug of your choice at that time? Pantopon. That's pantopon. Pantopon. And that too is a derivative, is it not, of opium? Yes, it is. And after you recommenced your use of pantopon in 1947, for how long did you continue to use drugs until you again sought some help outside? About two weeks. And during that two-week period, did you find that you had again become addicted? I felt that I had again become addicted and I was extremely afraid of going through the same process I had done before. So, what did you do then? Because of the tremendous publicity about the entrance of Barney Ross to Public Health Service at Lexington, I applied voluntarily for admission to the hospital. I went to see the public health office down in the city in which I resided and arranged for admission to the hospital. Actually, you were received, were you not, as a voluntary patient at the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. Completely voluntary. When did you actually enter that hospital as a patient? January 1947. And were you, when you first were admitted, were you placed on the regular withdrawal routine? Yes, sir. Doctor, will you just describe for us what that consists of and how the hospital treats the patient during this withdrawal period? On admission, a complete examination is made. You're referring, I assume, to a physical examination? Yes, a complete physical examination is made. And is that primarily for the purpose of determining whether you have any basic physical illness which requires or might require the use of sedatives or opiates? Yes. And after the physical examination, what is done? There's a period between seven and ten days in which there's a gradual reduction of the use of drugs. Sometimes substitutes are used in order to enable the person to come over the withdrawal period. And actually, you were on this withdrawal program for how long? About seven days. And after the seven days, you were completely off drugs. Yes, I was. Tell me frankly, doctor, during those seven days, did you undergo any serious physical discomfort? I didn't then because of the fact that the drugs were gradually withdrawn and the amount of drugs I had taken prior to admission was comparatively small. Well, generally speaking, from what you yourself experienced and from your own knowledge as a physician, do you feel that it is a humane way to accomplish the withdrawal? Yes, it is. And you received proper nursing care did you not during that period and attention from the resident physicians at the hospital at Lexington? I did. Now, after you were completely off the drug, what program followed? Immediately after withdrawal of the drug, I was assigned to a particular type of work activity. That, in my particular case, consisted of working as an automobile mechanic. whatever free time I had was either spent in a library or in Plain Bridge. This work that you did as an automobile mechanic was that in the nature of occupational therapy? Yes. And you were kept pretty well occupied during the day? Yes, I was. At that job. And let me ask you this, Doctor. The authorities at Lexington knew, is that right? Yes. And did they in any way segregate you? And to your knowledge, is there any segregation at Lexington between the different kinds of cases? That is, do they segregate the criminals who are there from those who have come voluntarily? Do they segregate the youngsters from those who are more mature? Is there any program of segregation at all? I believe that segregation is the name only because while the teenagers and the daughters were kept in a separate wing for sleeping purposes, all work and general activity was done as a group. The same people that I worked with were three-year prisoners, two-year prisoners, probationers, and volunteers. And would you tell me something about what went on insofar as general conversation amongst the inmates, those who were volunteers and those who were there as convicted prisoners? The general cultural level consisted of a development of vocabulary in regard to drug addiction that I had here to know nothing about. I think that 99.9% of all conversation was based on the ability to get drugs, the ability to score, so to speak, and what will be done when they leave in terms of getting drugs or places to get them. I think of them that during your stay at Lexington, you got a rather liberal education in how to pursue or how one might succeed in obtaining drugs after discharge from Lexington, if that was one's inflammation. Well, doctor, in your own case, you actually stayed at Lexington from about January 1947 to about April 1947. And during this four-month period, you continued your occupational therapy and you continue to have observation, physical, as well as psychiatric. Well, I did have psychiatric observation, but the number of times, I think, of the four months, could briefly, I think there were about four times that I saw a psychiatrist. I think there were about four times that I saw a psychiatrist during the time I was there. Did you, at the time that you were there, feel that there was a lack of adequate psychiatric attention paid to you? Oh, yes. I mean, this wasn't only referenced to myself. I mean, this was the general feeling. I mean, it was true. I mean, you couldn't see a man more than three or four times during any four-month period. Now, in April of 1947, you were allowed to leave the hospital. Yes, I was. And you left then with medical consent. That's right. Of the authorities of Lexington. Yes. And were you, at that time, directed or instructed to return? Yes. I was asked to return at the end of two months for a checkup. And did you return at the end of two months as directed? At the end of the two-month period, I was out of town. I wrote to the authorities and told them that I was unable to appear at that time. They suggested that at any convenient time in the future that I happened to be in that area to return. And eventually you came back and got a final checkup? No, I didn't. You never did return for that final checkup? So that you never obtained from Lexington the certificate that you were discharged, secured within the meaning of the law? That's right. Actually, after leaving Lexington, you went out of this state, did you not? Yes, I did. And when did you return to New York State and resume the practice of medicine? 1948. Now, during the period of time between your discharge or your going out of Lexington in April and your return to New York State to practice, had you stayed clear of drugs? Yes, I did. And when did you, if ever, revert to the use of drugs? I reverted to the use of drugs in 1948. And between 1948 and September 1949, I had been off and on drugs. Even though there were periods of relapses a considerable time, there was no real official complete cure. And eventually, you entered another institution here in the state of New York, a privately operated hospital. Yes, I did. And when did you enter that? September 1949. And how long did you remain there? Six months. Now, during your stay at this private hospital, did you obtain psychiatric care? Yes, I did. And was the psychiatric care which you obtained at this private hospital more intense and more adequate than that which you had had at Lexington? Certainly. Well, just by way of comparison, would you briefly explain to us what the differences were between the two institutions? Well, for one thing, each psychiatrist at the private institution had no more than eight or nine patients. He spent between four five hours per week per patient. He made definite arrangements for subsequent psychiatric care either at the institution or at your own private physician or private psychiatrist. That is, those arrangements were made before leaving the hospital. But the understanding was that you would follow a course outlined at the hospital after you had left? They were very definite about that. And you did, in accordance with their instructions, place yourself in the hands of a psychiatrist of your own selection? Yes, I did. So that after this six months at the hospital, you continue to have psychiatric attention for a considerable period of time after that? Yes, I did. Are you still having some psychiatric attention at the present time? The intervals are considerably less than they were at that time. However, I do see a psychiatrist from time to time. And after leaving that institution and after a continuation of intense and prolonged psychotherapy, you then returned to the practice of medicine? Yes. And today you are an active practicing physician? Yes, I am. And carrying on your practice full time and with complete confidence in your own ability to do so? Yes, I am. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. For the record, in retrospect, just tell me in your own way what your own observations and reactions are with regard to the program at Lexington. I believe the program at Lexington is completely deficient in the approach with regard to one's future. There is too much preoccupation with security. There is very little attention paid to the psychiatric needs of patients. Much more important is the fact of so-called non-segregation. While segregation exists during sleeping, it does not exist during working. There is too much contact for either beginner or novice at taking drugs with criminals and relatively longstanding addicts. Even more important perhaps than these are the fact that no attention is subsequently paid to what the addict will do when he leaves the hospital. Probably the most trying period of any addict is that immediate period for two or three months after he's left the hospital and is trying to get back on his feet. You therefore feel that the failing, if any, at Lexington is not so much in its program while you're there, but rather in the lack of direction for aftercare and a complete lack of follow-up by Lexington with the patients after they leave? Yes, I believe so. You think that if you added that factor onto any institution that you are more reasonably certain of obtaining a good result? Yes, I believe so. In other words, I take it that you feel that there is a greater emphasis needed on the psychiatric side while at any institution, plus a follow-up of psychiatric attention after leaving Lexington or any other institution, and a sort of counseling service to the patient after they have left the hospital to help them to rehabilitate themselves. I think that's a good word, counseling service. Well now, we have both used a word, and I would like you to tell me just what that word means to you. A person leaving a hospital after a so-called cure or beginning cure for addiction is in a quandary. His whole life has begun to change. He's now deprived of a complete crutch which his psychiatric existence had forced him to hold onto. He needs the benefit, aid, and advice of somebody from the outside who is able and capable to be able to help in doing this particular period, in planning his own program, in developing his own personality, and beginning to get back on his feet. The absence of such a program will probably cut down the possibilities of cure to a very, very small percentage. Now, you have, to the best of your own belief and knowledge, reached the point now where you have obtained a full cure. I believe so. You have had the advantage, however, have you not, Doctor, of having the ability to return to a normal life following the practice of a profession. How about your own reaction to people who have had a disjointed existence, who have to go in for a cure to an institution, and then find themselves out on the street with nothing much to guide them? That's where your word counseling comes in. In other words, that counseling service would be a service which, in addition to everything else, would attempt to obtain proper employment, attempt to put people in a good environment, and to help them to establish beneficial social contacts and a decent living program. Absolutely. And you feel that any institution in and of itself is not the complete answer unless you tie it in with a follow-up program of the kind you and I have talked about. Yes, that's only the beginning. The institution is the beginning of the treatment of your problem. The counseling service and the things we spoke about are really the final story. Doctor, I want to thank you very much for your cooperation in coming down and giving us the benefit of your experience and your... Mr. Attorney General, in addition to the interrogation of the physician whose testimony has now been played to you, I further interrogated a... another licensed physician of the state of New York, and I should briefly like to summarize for you the substance of his testimony. This tape is the story of a New York doctor who is 49 years of age. His license to practice was revoked by reason of drug addiction, and then it was restored to him after his complete cure and rehabilitation. He became addicted in 1942 while seeking an easy avenue of escape from emotional distress. He began with one quarter grain of morphine to induce sleep, but he soon was taking 12 grains daily. He obtained narcotics by writing prescriptions and misusing Treasury Department opium order forms. After a brief period in a private sanitarium, he reverted to the use of drugs, and he entered the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Fort Worth, Texas, as a voluntary patient. He was given withdrawal therapy, a five-day period during which drugs were gradually withdrawn. Afterwards, he did general farm work for some three months, and then he left Fort Worth against medical advice. Primarily, he felt his main purpose had been served, his strength restored, and that further association with the predominantly prisoner addicts was demoralizing and hindered his rehabilitation. He says the lack of segregation and the necessity for companionship compelled one to mingle with criminals, prostitutes, and the like, whose sole thought was to get back to their use of drugs. But most voluntary patients, principally professional people, showed a sincere desire to be cured. The lack of segregation and the absence of any psychotherapy were responsible in the main for his departure from Fort Worth. He feels, however, that the facility at Fort Worth served its purpose insofar as it took him off drugs completely and permitted him to regain his physical health. Beyond that, it failed to provide any additional rehabilitation. He emphasizes the need for intensive psychotherapy following physical rehabilitation and the necessity of maintaining an active follow-up program during a convalescent or parole period after a patient's release. And now, sir, with your permission, I should like to introduce, for the record and have you hear, my interrogation of this physician. You may proceed. Doctor, as you already know, I am an assistant attorney general assigned to the staff of Nathaniel L. Goldstein, the attorney general of the state of New York. I have asked you to come in to see me today, and I want to thank you for coming. I asked you to come because I know that you have had personal experience with the problem of drug addiction, and I felt that you could give us the point of view of a person who's undergone treatment for that condition, and you might be able to give us the benefit of your experience and your opinions in the matter. It is the fact, is it not, that you are a duly licensed physician entitled to practice medicine in the state of New York. That is true. And how long have you been licensed to practice in this state? Twenty-five years. Now, Doctor, sometime in about 1945, I believe, you had some difficulty, did you not, which led you to taking drugs? That was approximately 1942, that is, 1945. And what was the general nature of this difficulty? Oh, I had a number of emotional and personal problems which I couldn't solve at the time, and narcotic drugs being very convenient to me, it was an easy avenue of escape that alleviated the emotional stress. And your particular problem, then, was a problem of emotional escape? Entirely so. And what drug was it that you chose for this escape? My original drug was morphine. And the morphine which you used for the purpose of obtaining release from tension and anxiety, was that morphine which you obtained as a physician by writing prescriptions and obtaining morphine on Treasury Department opium order forms? That's the only way I ever got the drugs. And, Doctor, it is a fact, is it not, that eventually, by reason of your misuse of your narcotic privileges, you were subjected to proceedings before the Medical Grievance Committee and the Board of Regents of the New York State Education Department, and you were disciplined. That is right. And there was a time with an office where, by reason of this improper conduct on your part, that you were barred from the practice of medicine in this state. That is right. But more recently, you have demonstrated your complete cure and rehabilitation, and you have had restored to you your license and your right to practice as a physician in this state. That is right, also. And do I state it correctly, Doctor, that at the present time you are engaged again in the practice of your profession as a doctor? That is right. Originally and before you had this problem of drugs, you were engaged in the general practice of medicine? That is right. How old are you, Doctor? Forty-nine. Forty-nine. Now, when you first recognized that you were yourself an addict, did you enter some institution to obtain a cure? I did. Where did you go? Oh, I went to a private sanitarium. And was that a private sanitarium upstate? Approximately, yes. And how long did you stay at this private sanitarium? Five days. And what manner of therapy did you have at that private institution? Well, I had no therapy at all. I went voluntarily and voluntarily requested a block withdrawal. And after five days you left that particular sanitarium? That is right. Now, at the time that you left the sanitarium, were you in fact cured of the drug habit? Oh, far from it. And how long after you left that private sanitarium did you revert to the use of narcotic drugs? Well, a short time after I left the sanitarium and I went home, I took sick with an acute anxiety state and had to enter a private hospital for the treatment of this anxiety state. I stayed there approximately three months and I felt pretty good. And then returned to the practice of medicine. But I reverted back to the use of drugs within a relatively short period of time. And after this reversion, did you again resort to the taking of morphine? I did. And morphine is a derivative of opium, is it not? That is right. And how much morphine were you taking per day? Oh, I started originally with a quarter of a grain just at night to induce some sleep. By the time I was well developed into addiction, I had been taking approximately 10 to 12 grains a day. Now, sometime, I believe in about 1947, you reached the point, did you not doubt, where you realized that you had to do something more drastic in the attempt to get yourself cured of that habit. Well, I made a number of desperate attempts to solve the problem, but nearly withdrawing the drug did not solve anything. And I became desperate and I decided to enter the Fort Worth U.S. Public Health Hospital as a voluntary patient. And you did go down to Fort Worth, Texas, and you entered the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Fort Worth as a voluntary patient in 1947. That is right. And when you first entered the hospital, were you placed on withdrawal therapy? I was, immediately. And for how many days did you have withdrawal treatment? Well, I was given the usual course which was used at the time, which is about a five-day withdrawal period. Now, while you were undergoing withdrawal, did you suffer discomfort? Very little. And eventually, when you had been completely withdrawn, what was the program? Nothing. I was merely removed out of the infirmary where the withdrawal program was carried out, and I was put on another open board, and then I began to work on the forms. Did the authorities at the hospital in Fort Worth, Texas, know that you were a physician? They did know that. Now, this work that you did on the farm, was that any particular kind of work, or general farming? Oh, it's general farming, truck farming, chicken farming, general type of outdoor farming activities. And how long did you stay at Fort Worth altogether? A little over three months. Now, did you leave Fort Worth at the end of three months with the consent of the authorities at Fort Worth? No, I left against medical advice. Dr. Candidly, why did you leave Fort Worth? Well, I felt that they had served my purpose. I had been off drugs. I had regained my physical strength. And beyond that point, I felt that they were breaking my process of rehabilitation down rather than building it up. Well, in what manner did you feel that you were being broken down at Fort Worth? Well, the whole atmosphere after that was more of a penitentiary rather than a hospital. There was no segregation. I was mixed in with a population which was predominantly a criminal element. And what was your relationship with these people who were there under compulsion as convicted criminals? Well, we were all very friendly. You had to be friendly or you would be ostracized among them. So I made friends with them and we would chat. And I listened to all kinds of stories about their experiences and their criminal activities and in their methods of obtaining drugs and various prostitution activities. Well, these inmates that you're talking about, were they both male and female or just male? Most of them were male, were males. But on the outside of the buildings, there were about five or six females, all of whom were prostitutes. Now, considering the voluntary patients only, there were other voluntary patients there besides yourself, were there not? Very few. And did you have a feeling with regard to the voluntary patients that they sincerely desired to be cured? Well, there was no question about it. The few voluntary patients we had were professional people, people who had established themselves in our society and wished to recapture that. And how about the criminal population? Did you have any feeling with regard to their sincerity in being cured? Oh, on the contrary. They nearly counted the days until their time would be up when they could again resort to the use of narcotic drugs. Now... They were very bitter towards our society and they were going to get even. Well, now, do you personally feel that it was disadvantageous to you as a patient to be intermingled with others who were not sincerely interested in being cured? Well, I feel that if I were better segregated among my own type, away from this criminal element, that I definitely would have stayed a much longer period of time. Under those circumstances, do you think that you would have stayed for the full time required by the authorities at Fort Worth? If it weren't for the inability to segregate me properly, I would have stayed there as long as the hospital authorities deemed it necessary. Well, did you feel that it was demoralizing to you to be intermingled with these criminals who were there as patients? Oh, it was extremely demoralizing. I began to almost act and talk in their own language. Now, after you left Fort Worth, did you return to the state of New York? I returned immediately. You did not, however, take up the practice of medicine, did you? No, I did not. And how long did you stay away from the practice of medicine? Well, I was away from the practice of medicine approximately over six months. And did you do anything at all during the six months to further rehabilitate yourself? Well, soon after I returned to New York from Fort Worth, Texas, I took a job, a summer job. And you kept yourself busy at work during the summertime and in other seasons, but not in the field of medicine. That is right. And eventually, did you feel that you had been sufficiently rehabilitated to ask for the restoration of your license to practice medicine? That is true. And it was restored to you? Immediately. Immediately. And you have ever since resumed and continued to practice as a physician? That is right. Now, as you look back upon the facility at Fort Worth, would you give us the benefit of your own attitudes and opinion with regard to a facility for the treatment of addicts? What was there about Fort Worth which you think was worthwhile? And what, if anything, did you feel was missing at Fort Worth which you think a facility for the treatment of drug addicts should have? Well, Fort Worth did serve its purpose to me in that it took me off drugs comfortably and then it permitted me to recapture my good health. Beyond that point, if I stayed longer, it would have been a destructive one. Was there any psychotherapy available at Fort Worth? I never got any. Did you feel that you were in need of psychotherapy while you were a patient at Fort Worth? Oh, definitely so. Anyone who has ever been addicted to drugs needs intensive psychotherapy. And if you were asked to set up a facility or to plan a facility for the treatment of drug addicts, have you any particular ideas of what you think such a facility ought to have and how it ought to be planned? Well, the facilities at Fort Worth, the physical ones, are very appropriate in that they give you a very comfortable withdrawal from the drug and they have all the facilities for regaining one's physical health. Beyond that point, there is much to be done which Fort Worth and other places don't have. Well, what specifically do you think is required in addition to the withdrawal therapy and the program of physical rehabilitation? Well, after a person has been physically rehabilitated, then he must be rehabilitated in other respects. In what other respects, doctor, have you in mind? Well, through intensive psychotherapy, the psychiatrist dealing with the person should delve into the emotional and personal and other problems which originally induced or contributed towards the addiction and teaching that person to use a more normal method of handling personal and emotional problems than through such destructive methods as drug addiction. I take it, then, that as a first additional measure in rehabilitation, you feel that there is a need for a definite psychiatric program? Well, there's no question about it. You must work on one's ego strength and restore that strength and give him goals that are worthwhile achieving. Now, apart from a psychiatric program, what other matters do you think ought to be included in a program for rehabilitation? That's an individualistic problem. One has to inquire what the abilities are of the individual regarding jobs, regarding home situations, regarding social relationships. Those are individualistic problems. Well, do you think that a facility should have some follow-up program so that they can keep check of patients after leaving the particular institution? Well, after they leave the institution, they should have a convalescent period or a parole period, during which time social workers acquainted with the problem keep in touch with this person and help him in the various endeavors which he's trying to attain. And do you think that people who are sincerely interested in getting cured and being fully rehabilitated would resent a follow-up program of the kind that you've just mentioned? Well, anyone that has been through the horrors of drug addiction will cooperate in every manner with any kind of a public or private agency to restore him to be a useful citizen again. You don't think that a person in that situation would have any reluctance to be followed up by someone in the nature of a parole officer at regular intervals so that they might check to be sure that they had not reverted to the use of drugs and to check to be sure that they had been readjusted to proper living? You don't think that a patient would resent that? I don't see why they should resent it. I personally would welcome such a situation which was never offered to me. Do you think if it had been offered to you, it would have assisted in your own rehabilitation? Well, if such services were available to me early, I believe I could have solved this problem of drug addiction much sooner without the horrors that it caused me. Well, despite it all, Doctor, the fact is that Fort Worth has rendered some service to you in getting you off the drug and giving you at least the beginnings of rehabilitation. Oh, it definitely has solved the original problems for me. Without that, I couldn't have gone further. But as you now look back on it, do you think that the program which was available at Fort Worth was not adequate for a complete and thorough rehabilitation, that there were elements that were lacking that you've mentioned? Well, it was definitely not sufficient to bring about a complete cure. Doctor, I want to thank you for coming and for giving us the benefit of your experiences, your opinions, and your general understanding of the problem. Thank you. The hearing will now recess for 10 minutes until 2.30. You are listening to the hearings on this, the second day, the second phase of the New York State Narcotics Investigation from the State Office Building in downtown Manhattan. We pause very briefly now for station identification. You are tuned to WNYC-FM, New York City's own high-fidelity station. During this recess, we hope to have several of the personalities involved in the investigation for short interviews. So far, most of the gentlemen are rather busy. We see the Attorney General greeting a lady who just came in. His assistants are folding together their briefcases and various papers. In the meantime, however, we might repeat the Attorney General's second statement. He said, They become a useful member of society. A comment on the fact that both the educated and the uneducated are affected by drug addiction, of course, were the recorded testimonies of two physicians which you just heard. Our first witness during this hearing today was Joseph D'Ambrose, a state narcotics investigator. He gave the function of his department as maintaining a check on those organizations or people engaged in the legitimate distribution and use of drugs. His organization licenses doctors, dentists, pharmacists, and veterinarians and the like. He claimed that the legitimate access to drugs is available to 40,000 people and organizations or perhaps a little more. He spoke of the narcotics problem beginning to take hold in 1914 with the advent of the Harrison Act. Before that, there was no legislation concerning the use of narcotics, at least not in this state. Mr. D'Ambrose described the period between 1941 and 1945, that is the war years. He described that period as being marked by a decrease in narcotics incidents and smuggling because restrictions were placed on boat travel. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I see we have State Senator Seymour Halpern, who is known as the father of these investigations. How do you do, Senator? How do you do? I'd like to ask you very candidly, sir, how did all this come about, this entire hearing? Was it primarily your idea? Well, at the legislative session, there were several bills introduced dealing with the narcotics problem as a result, I believe, of the newspaper and almost everyday revelations about the extent of the condition. I put in one bill to ask for an overall thorough probe on the part of the Attorney General to get to the roots of the problem. And that is what this probe has been doing, as you can well see. Was there any difficulty, sir, in getting the particular bill brought up by you passed? No, there wasn't much problem to that. I spoke to the Governor's Council and to the legislative leaders. They were aware of the problem, as all of us were, and I believe that they felt as keenly as anyone about trying to get to the solutions. And they could think of no better way of getting to the roots of it, as I stated before, and really coming up with a program that would be an overall cure to the problem. As a matter of interest to our listeners, could you kindly tell us the amount of money appropriated to this hearing? Yes, there was $50,000 appropriated. I see you have there a statement which you'd like to make, and by all means, please go ahead. It's not exactly a statement. It was just a few pencil notes that I had jotted down, and I thought it might be apropos at this time to read them, or at least to pick up these notes and relate them to the radio audience. I cannot praise the Attorney General enough for the splendid job that he's doing in conducting this inquiry into narcotics addiction. It is one thing for a legislator to propose programs, but it's another thing to have the facts to back them up. Many well-intentional groups, law enforcement agencies, social welfare agencies, judges, and other experts in the field have made excellent suggestions for remedies and cures, for changes in laws and procedures in dealing with the subject. But what really was needed was an overall survey of the problem. How prevalent is it? What is the experience of health and law enforcement agencies in handling cases? What facilities are there to handle addicts? What is the sensation an addict feels? What leads a person to addiction, and how can we overcome it? What are his reactions to the adequacy of present cures? What failings do we have in the coordination of official agencies on federal, state, city, and local basis? These are the questions that had to be answered before an adequate workable program to wipe out addiction can be enacted. That's just what the Attorney General's inquiry has been doing. It's been getting to the root of the problem. It has exposed the true horrible facts. It has alerted the public. It has awakened parents. It has exposed the horrors of addiction to youngsters who might otherwise have become prey to curiosity. The Attorney General has even gone beyond that. He has discovered the inadequacies of cures, the loopholes in enforcement, the weaknesses of present procedures on all levels of government. And I'm sure that the final recommendations of the Attorney General will be the most comprehensive, most workable, and most beneficial program ever presented. And I feel it will not only strike down the spread of this infectious narcotic habit, but also, when enacted, rescue present addict victims and wipe out the menace once and for all. Thanks very much, State Senator Halpern. I see now that we have one of the Deputy Attorney Generals, Mr. Ben Gimm, whom you heard testify yesterday. Mr. Gimm, what is your entire reaction to these hearings? Do you think that they are alerting the people of New York City and the state to the general problem of narcotics? Well, I think so, and I hope so. The public cannot be asleep to this problem. The primary purpose, according to the Attorney General, of the rehabilitation program is to protect the public. He claims a roaming addict is a potential crime carrier. How does that strike you? Well, I can speak, certainly, as an ex-narcotics agent. And the confirmed unrehabilitated addict is a criminal in that he will resort to any means, legal or illegal, to obtain the wherewithal to buy narcotic supplies. I think that was brought out very clearly yesterday by Dr. Paul Zimmerling, in which he described most of the boys he's worked with at Bellevue as being nice kids, basically, but would do practically anything to get hold of the drug. That is true. Mr. Gimm, we noticed that last time you were here, you, rather, the Attorney General requested that your photograph not be taken. Is there any particular reason why it is being taken at this time? Well, at this time, I no longer engage in that phase of the investigation that requires a concealment of my identity. I see. Thank you very much, Mr. Ben Gimm. I want to get your title correct. Deputy Assistant Attorney General? That is correct. Is that correct? Thank you very much, sir. And now we have Mr. Sidney Tartikoff, the Assistant Attorney General, who has been doing most of the questioning during this, the second phase of the narcotics hearings. Mr. Tartikoff, could you kindly tell us whether or not there will be a third or fourth phase of these hearings? Well, I'd rather you ask that question of the Attorney General, because throughout the entire process of our work, he has guided the entire investigation, and he has set the matter of policy. And I continue to feel that he will do the same in the future. How does the New York State Attorney General's office feel, sir, in regard to exposing this entire problem to the public? I know that there has been in the past some opposition of exposing the narcotics problem on the part of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics. Well, I'm not so sure that I agree completely with the assumption that they have been opposed completely. I think we've got to be particularly careful that the exposure doesn't stimulate curiosity. But I think the kind of exposure that we're doing is intended, and I think it will achieve the result that we want, of alerting the people, making them aware of the danger of this situation, so that they, together with the Attorney General, will be able to impress upon the agencies of our federal, state, and local governments the necessity of doing something about this. We were rather startled yesterday, sir, by Dr. Niswander's statement that approximately 15% of those who are addicted to drugs are eventually cured. To your knowledge, is anything being worked on at the present time which you could reveal which would cure, and I put the word in quotes, those who are definitely addicted? Well, that is the very purpose of our hearings, and I think that before you've concluded with your session today, you will have gotten the outline of a program which we think will make for a much better prognosis and which will ensure a much better result. Do you think, sir, there'll be any difficulty in obtaining funds to bring this about? I think if we can convince the public, as I think we can, that the program of the kind that we're interested in can be put into effect, and the results obtained thereby will ensure a reduction in the number of addicts and their successful cure, I don't think we're going to have difficulty in getting money. You won't have difficulty in getting money if the public can be assured that the money will be well spent and the results that they want will be achieved. Thank you very much, sir. That was Sidney Tartikoff, the Assistant Attorney General of the State of New York, And now we have the Attorney General himself, the Honorable Nathaniel Goldstein. At the outset, I want to commend my staff for the fine job they did. This was a seven-month painstaking, arduous job. It was all handled by my Chief of Staff, my own Assistant Attorney General Tartikoff, together with three or four other members of my regular staff, and two or three special assistants. It's been a great, tough, hard job, and I think we've proven the value of all our research and all our services. But, of course, the final answer rests for what's going to happen. And as I explained previously, we had three phases to deal with. One, the rehabilitation phase. Two, educational. And three, penal. Today, we intend to complete our rehabilitation phase and try to evolve an answer which may tend toward a possible cure. From herein, as we adjourn today, we intend to go on with our penal and educational phases. I also want to thank WNYC for its fine cooperative endeavors. It covered the early hearings and now covered these. This is a fine public service and deserves commendation. Thank you ever so much. Thank you very much. That was the New York State Attorney General, the Honorable Nathaniel Goldstein, speaking on behalf of this narcotics investigation, the second phase of which is taking place right now. The recess still isn't over, so we'd like to, at this time, go on with a summary of Mr. Joseph D'Ambrose, the state narcotic investigator's testimony. Mr. D'Ambrose explained that in the period between 1941 and 1945, the war years, this period was marked by a decrease in narcotics incidents and smuggling because restrictions were placed on boat travel. Mr. D'Ambrose also explained that the New York State Bureau of Narcotics Control found that during the war years, forged narcotics prescriptions were used, doctors were preyed upon by narcotics users, drug addicts, hospital and doctor drug cabinets were rifled, broken into, since the street supply of the narcotics users was cut off. When the war ended, according to Mr. D'Ambrose, and normal shipping was resumed, smuggling increased. The illegitimate sources of narcotics came back to the streets, and the thefts from the doctors and hospitals declined at the very same time, a sort of concurrent thing. He also maintained that the street price, so-called street price of heroin in the years 1950, late 50, early 51, for a capsule was $1.50. Now, as a result of increased activity by various police enforcement agencies, both city, state and federal, the street price for heroin, at least in the city of New York, because of the greater danger to the pusher or the seller, is $2. Therefore, Joseph D'Ambrose claimed that the legitimate medical supply is once again being attacked, concurrent with increased police activity on dope peddlers. He cited figures to back these statements, and further illustrated this point by pointing out that 5,000 morphine tablets had been stolen from Rikers Island Hospital a few months ago. In their place, some sugar tablets had been substituted. For $200, a registered pharmacist stole the tablets, and he substituted the others, as we said, and gave them to a convict, who, after leaving Rikers Island, sold the tablets to somebody else, who in turn tried to sell them for $10,000 in Florida. All this, Mr. D'Ambrose proved by apprehending the thieves and accomplice. Then he cited two more cases in point, for example, the forged prescriptions. I see now that the Attorney General is just about ready to proceed with the rest of the investigation, and has the gavel in hand. Turn the microphones over now to the Attorney General. Mr. Tartikoff. I should now like to call Dr. Arnold Z. Pfeffer. Measure, I am pleased. Thank you. Doctor, would you give your full name and address to the stenographer, please? Arnold Pfeffer, 471 Park Avenue. Dr. Pfeffer, you graduated, did you not, from the College of the City of New York before you entered upon your medical education? That's right. And from what medical school you were graduating? Duke Medical School. And after you graduated from the medical school at Duke University, where did you intern? At the Morrisania City Hospital in New York. And after you completed your internship, did you have additional training in the field of medicine? Yes, and specifically in the field of psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital. And what are your present appointments, Doctor? At the present time, I'm Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine and in charge of the alcohol clinic at the University Hospital. That is also part of New York University Bellevue Medical Center? That's right. And what are your professional ratings? I'm a diplomat of the American Board of Neurology and Psychiatry. A little louder, please. A little louder, Doctor, please. And do you hold a position with the National Board of Medical Examiners? That's true. And is that position also as a diplomat in charge of examinations of psychiatrists? No, there is no such official position. But your position is a diplomat of the National Board of Medical Examiners. That's right. Doctor, you spent some time during your professional career at the United States Public Health Service Hospital in Lexington, did you not? Yes. When were you stationed at the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky? Between the years of 1942 and 1945, for a total period of some two years and nine months. And while you held a position there, what was the nature of your assignment? I was assigned to be in charge of the psychiatric services of that hospital. Now, while you were there employed as a chief psychiatrist, I take it that you had many opportunities to come into direct contact with the addict patients who were at the hospital at Lexington. Yes, I did. And even after leaving the service at Lexington, Kentucky, have you continued to maintain an interest in the subject of drug addiction? Yes, I have. And without flattering you, Doctor, you have written many scientific papers for various medical journals with regard to the scientific and psychiatric aspects of medical drug addiction. Have you not? A few, yes. Now, Doctor... As you probably have observed, we have had a... number of discussions here yesterday and to some extent today on tape recording concerning the problems which are involved in the treatment of narcotic addiction. In discussing this matter of treatment, Doctor, how many broad phases would you say are entailed? The treatment of narcotic addiction may be thought of in two phases. First, withdrawal, and then rehabilitation. Well, would you tell us firstly something about that phase which is described by you in the word withdrawal? Withdrawal is the procedure to be used when an addict is physically dependent on drugs. By that I mean if the addict should stop using narcotic drugs, he ordinarily becomes severely ill. The illness has the form of severe perspiring, anxiety, perhaps to the degree of panic, vomiting, diarrhea, and sometimes collapse. Now... In the first step, I take it then, in the treatment of addiction, you have got to undertake this withdrawal therapy program. That's right. Morphine must be withdrawn or whatever narcotic happens to be must be withdrawn from the addict and in such a way so that dangerous medical conditions will not ensue, so that he will not collapse, so that he will not get into any of the possible medical or psychiatric difficulties. Well, what would you say is the procedure of choice? There are... Can you take me a man off drugs? There are various procedures that have been used. My own feeling is that the procedure of choice is the gradual withdrawal of narcotics over a period of perhaps 10 days to 2 weeks. During this period, the amount of narcotics given to the addict is gradually diminished. And in a period of 10 days or 2 weeks, perhaps the patient will be completely off narcotics. During the period of withdrawal, the patient must have some additional help, additional medical help. And this may consist of medication in the form of various sedatives to ease the anxieties that ensue when withdrawal occurs, flow baths, intravenous fluids, and various means to combat the severe diarrhea and the characteristic aching that may occur during this period of withdrawal. Now, this withdrawal therapy that you speak of, is it a difficult procedure to carry out? Withdrawal itself is relatively simple if it's carried out under the proper conditions. And the proper conditions includes an adequately guarded ward where drugs will not be available to the addict, a staff of physicians, nurses, and attendants who are thoroughly familiar with the problem of addiction and who will not become alarmed themselves and who will neither be too harsh nor excessively lenient during the withdrawal period. These personnel have to be selected for their skill and proper temperamental makeup for the management of the difficult problem of addiction. If all of these things are looked into, the withdrawal itself is a relatively simple procedure. And while we're on the phase of withdrawal, Dr. Pfeffer, do you also, in rounding out this program, do you also feel that it's necessary to have a general medical staff available for the treatment of any concurrent medical disease that may exist? Yes, this is absolutely necessary because occasionally in a hospital set up in this way, one will come upon a patient who is addicted but also happens to have any one of the usual diseases. Now, one must necessarily have nearby a competent medical staff to evaluate, diagnose, and treat these medical disorders or to render medical opinions as to whether or not the patient should be withdrawn from drugs in light of these medical conditions. Same with surgeons. Addicts like all other people can develop various surgical emergencies and these two must be treated and with the usual good medical care. Now, having accomplished the withdrawal, we go on then to a program of more general rehabilitation. Now, I take it, Doctor, that you feel that the withdrawal per se and of itself is not the cure for drug addiction. That's right. Withdrawal itself is simple and while it's necessarily the first step in the treatment of the addict, it's by far the easiest step, the step that's received most attention so far, and yet does not at all constitute the real cure or adequate treatment of the addict. Well, now, will you outline for us, Doctor, just how one might undertake a further rehabilitative program after withdrawal? In a general way, one must necessarily approach the addict as a person with all sorts of complex problems, regardless of what those problems happen to be. These should be looked into in terms of what were the causes for the original use of drugs, what psychological, environmental, or social changes have ensued during the use of drugs themselves. Now, any adequate program for rehabilitation must focus itself on these very factors, keeping in mind the effort to change these factors such that the addict will not relapse to the use of drugs, so that these factors will not be present and again cause the use of drugs as they did originally. In other words, Doctor, you've got to find out what it was that drove him into addiction to start with. That's right. And to see whether you can get to the core of his basic instability or his basic difficulty. That's right. Now, during this further program, is there a period of physical rehabilitation as well? In the past, the general procedure has been to keep addicts in hospitals after the period of withdrawal for a period of four or five or six months. And the idea behind this was that this would enable the patient to be built up physically for the physiological effects of narcotics to disappear. In such a program, however, the great emphasis was placed on this physical rehabilitation. Whether or not such a plan will be necessary, if there's an adequate follow-up plan, I don't know. My guess would be that with adequate aftercare, the length of hospitalization for this general physical rehabilitation would have to be a great deal less. Now, in the case of the addict who has some severe physical disease or something that requires medical treatment, regardless of how long it takes, obviously such a patient should be hospitalized or be treated for this disease. I think the general principle is that there really are no general overall plans that will apply to all addicts. As with any other illness, each of these addicts must be studied individually, their specific problems evaluated, and attempt made to do something about each of these factors, regardless of what they happen to be. Dr. Pfeffer, I think you are personally acquainted with Dr. Paul Zimmering of Bellevue Hospital. Yes. And as a matter of fact, I stated correctly, do I not, Doctor, that you yourself do work at Bellevue Hospital? Yes. And are you familiar with Dr. Zimmering's analysis of the problems which have been presented to him through his contact with juvenile addicts? Yes, I am. Do you feel, Doctor, that there is, at the present time, a much greater hope and possibility of rehabilitating and curing the bulk of our juvenile addicts over and above that which may be available to us at the present time in the treatment and rehabilitation of our older addicts? This is a very difficult question to ask because one can know only by doing follow-up studies and evaluating these statistics. However, it's generally felt, and I feel too, that adolescents possibly are more approachable in terms of rehabilitation as compared with the addict. And I think this is so because of some of the different factors that apply for the adolescent that aren't true for the adult addict. What are some of those factors that you have in mind, Doctor? Well, to begin with, most of the adult addicts that one sees have been using narcotics for a long, long period of time. Now, this necessarily means that they develop a mode of adaptation, a way of living, a way of thinking, a way of working that revolves around the use of narcotics itself as in terms of procuring sufficient drugs. In the case of the adolescent, of the group that we've seen at Bellevue and I know about from other institutions, the duration of the use of narcotics is usually, certainly not in all cases, but in most cases, a good deal shorter. This also represents, I think, a factor for better prognosis. Perhaps the most important factor that would be speak a better prognosis for the adolescent as compared with the adult addict is the fact that the adolescent addict, like all adolescents, is going through a very special period, the period of adolescence itself, which means a great deal of turmoil in terms of finding themselves, working out their anxieties and conflicts about sex, work, career, people, and so on. Now, it is conceivable to me that if adolescents who happen to be involved in drugs are carried through this very difficult period of the turmoil of adolescence, that they may be carried over the danger period, during which period they would be looking for some way of allaying anxiety and solving conflicts, which narcotics will do, as narcotics certainly will make the person feel better when he's anxious. Many people have had the experience of anticipating an operation, having had some morphine, and have felt a good deal relieved. So that if the adolescent can be carried through this difficult period of turmoil and come out with a reasonably good adaptation and adjustment, perhaps the factor of addiction will not become so important. Now, I think that another reflection on the difference in the problem may be seen in the fact that everyone involved in this problem has observed that there are many adolescents who have come into contact with drugs, with narcotics, have used them perhaps once or twice, and then have stayed away from them. Now, just why this is, is difficult to say, but it may be because of what has already occurred on the basis of further education, further knowledge about drugs themselves, and further knowledge about drugs. Now, one can certainly not regard these addicts as cured addicts, but one would certainly say that a good many of these adolescents have been stopped or saved, so to speak, from addiction itself. Do you think, Dr. Pfeffer, that the publicity which has been given by the press, the result of the public hearings held by the Attorney General in June, having themselves acted as a motivating factor in scaring off some of these adolescents from playing with drugs? This may very well be, but there's another point I would like to make about the prognosis of the adolescent addict, and that's this. Against the good prognosis of the adolescent is the fact that the adolescent hasn't lived long enough to have had difficult life experiences, especially as related to drugs, to convince him that a life of drug addiction simply won't work, so that in answer to your original question about the prognosis of adolescence as regards, as compared with adult addicts, I think it's very difficult to say there are many factors that seem to point to a better prognosis. There's one factor of the youth from this aspect of the adolescent, the fact that he's not had sufficient experience with drugs themselves or with life itself perhaps speaks against the better prognosis. I really don't know. Now, where does psychiatry generally fit into this picture of treatment and rehabilitation? In a general way, one may certainly say that psychiatric treatment has not been the answer that one would like for it to be in the treatment of addicts. There are many difficulties that one comes across in attempting to treat an addict psychiatrically. To begin with, many addicts don't want to come to psychiatric treatment simply because they don't want to be cured. If, however, the addict does come for psychiatric treatment, the frequency of relapse while in the course of treatment is very great. Psychiatric treatment so often involves the eliciting, bringing out of additional anxieties as time goes on in treatment itself. But anxiety itself is exactly, or one of the exact reasons for the adolescent using narcotics to begin with so that the usual course or the frequent course in the psychiatric treatment of addicts is that anxiety is produced in the course of treatment, the addict takes narcotics to get rid of this anxiety, and treatment is ended. On the other hand, there have been a good many addicts who have been helped by psychiatric treatment. Well, now, Dr. Pfeffer, you've just touched on a point that I'd like to develop a little more fully with you. There is, then I take it, some danger in any course of therapy that the addict, for one reason or another, will run away from those who are seeking to cure him. Yes, that's true. If he doesn't want to, if he doesn't want to be cured and has the liberty to run away, he, of course, will do so. Would you feel, therefore, that there should be introduced into this picture some compulsory measures to ensure that your young adolescent as well as your older adolescent stays with the course of therapy until it has been completed? I quite agree with you and feel this is a terribly important point. I think that it's to the advantage of the addict, whether it be an adolescent or an adult, to have some form of coercion, whether it be in the form of probation or some legal measure, I don't know what, but as long as there's some measure of coercion such that he must remain in treatment, I think in the long run this will certainly act to the benefit of the addict in light of what I said before with the tendency of the addict to run away from treatment regardless of what it happens, what sort of treatment happens to be. I think it would be analogous to the child who has pneumonia and obviously doesn't want to be stuck with a needle with penicillin, and yet it's obviously to the advantage of the child to be held and for this penicillin to be given. Now, in addition to those phases which you have covered, in this therapy program, which you have generally referred to as rehabilitation, is there a phase of occupational therapy which must be brought into play? Excuse me. Yes, there are various factors that must be brought into play, but again, in general, which particular factors are to be brought into play must be determined on the basis of a very careful and adequate study of the individual addict. Now, some addicts will have no vocation. Such addicts, obviously, should be taught some such a vocation. That would be satisfying to them within their abilities and so on. On the other hand, I don't think that we ought to emphasize vocational training too much, again, in the sense that I feel it, too, is not the final answer. There are many addicts who have good vocations, many addicts who have been taught adequate vocations, and yet, simply because they don't want to stop using drugs and have other ways of obtaining money, simply don't want to follow these vocations. And the same with all of the other factors that might be brought into play, such as environmental changes, psychiatric treatment, probation, medical rehabilitation, and so on. All of these are factors that should be utilized. Now, how they are to be utilized in a particular problem must be determined on the basis of the problem of a particular patient. In other words, that would depend to a great extent on the individual who is undergoing treatment. Yes. But any facility must have available all of these facets so that if the individual requires this additional therapy, or this additional care, it can be made available to them. Yes, I think that's important. I'd like to get your own appraisal of the element of segregation in the treatment of addicts. In general, I certainly agree with most people on this, that segregation of the criminal and non-criminal groups of addicts is important in that the criminal group may contaminate with their criminal concepts. the non-criminal group. Also, I think it might be very well to attempt to segregate those who are apparently well-motivated, strongly motivated, to achieve some cure from those who are completely disheartened or disinterested in any such attempt. Such attitudes, that is, the attitude in relationship to whether or not a person really wants to be cured or doesn't want to be cured. These are attitudes that can be communicated also. Dr. Pfeffer, are there today any proven techniques for the effective treatment of drug addicts generally? No. I think in general, I want to say there are no proven techniques which are applicable to the addict population as a whole. We all know of occasional addicts who are helped, who are cured by this technique, that technique or no technique. There are addicts who have been addicted, have been withdrawn from drugs and simply have stopped using them again. However, there are no well-formulated techniques which one might say should be applied and can be applied with absolute success in the general population of addicts. I take it then that we are, as of this moment then, still in that phase of medical and psychiatric thinking where we must do further research. That's very true. I think that we're in a phase of the history of the development of the whole addiction problem that is quite different and quite new. In the past, the vast majority of efforts directed towards the problem of drug addiction, as from a medical psychiatric point of view, has been towards the problem of withdrawal, of general physical rehabilitation, of keeping the patient in an institution, away from drugs, and physiological research. I think in this problem of drug addiction, a new era has just about come into its own, and that is research, further understanding, and the devising of better methods for the aftercare of the addict. Now, Dr. Pfeffer, may I ask you to give us your concept, and I recognize it must be in some respects vague, but as specifically as you can, as to what you think a proposed clinical facility for the care and treatment of addicts should be like, one that we can bring into realization as of now. Well, as you indicate, any such ideas are on the basis of speculation in view of the fact that there are no such clinics in this entire country. I don't mean to intend that the things I suggest I feel are exactly the way it should be done, but I think I can indicate some line of thinking about this problem before any such clinic is set up. Obviously, a great deal more thought and detailed consideration of the various aspects would have to be followed through on. However, I do think that the great need right now is for an outpatient clinic. Now, such an outpatient clinic would serve many functions. One of the important functions it would serve would be that of diagnosis and evaluation. To use one example, a mother has the idea that her child is using drugs and has no way of knowing if this is true or not, or the mother doesn't know how serious the problem is. Such a clinic would serve the function of evaluating the problem of her child and leading her to the proper sources or perhaps treating the child there or informing her. In other words, you're now conceiving of this outpatient facility as a sort of screening place where you can determine those that need hospital or custodial care and those who don't require it. That's right. so that diagnosis would become an important factor of such a clinic and much of this could be done without sending the patient to a hospital for four or five months. First, it should be determined whether or not this is necessary. It's not a simple thing for the family or the patient himself to be sent away to a hospital for four or five months when it may be that this is not really necessary. so that in any event, I think the initial step in such a clinic should be evaluation. Then, if hospitalization is necessary for withdrawal or the treatment of a long-standing physical illness, this can be determined by an adequate medical staff. Then, let me interrupt to ask you, Dr. Pepper, does not your thinking at this stage then say that that outpatient facility must have connected with it a custodial place or a hospital to take care of those, particularly now we're talking of our young adolescents who need intensive therapy on a custodial basis. Yes, it's absolutely necessary to have an inpatient hospital when you deal with a problem of addiction. It's been more than adequately established. There are many principles we can be sure of in this field, but one principle is that ambulatory treatment of addiction, that is the ambulatory treatment of the withdrawal phase, is pretty much a waste of time. For a patient to be taken off drugs, he must be in an adequately set up hospital. And this also holds true, of course, for the treatment of various physical disorders that the patient may have. In other words, let me make this clear, Dr. Pepper, you're not suggesting then that this outpatient facility should be the point at which those who need custodial care ought to be taken care of. Oh, no. Rather, merely for the purpose of dividing away from the custodial facility those who are not truly in need of treatment. That's right. But having screened out those who will benefit by and those who require hospitalization, we must have a hospital facility at which they can be treated on an inpatient basis. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. That's absolutely necessary if one is to handle this addiction problem in any sort of an adequate way. In thinking of setting up an outpatient facility, I think we ought not lose sight of what's been valuable in the past, and that is inpatient treatment for addicts, too. Now, doctor, would you give me your concept or your thoughts on the kind of an inpatient facility that we ought to have, how it should be staffed, and how it might be operated? Well, that's a big problem. I think that the best way of presenting the answer to that question would be to say that, to use as an example, the hospital down at Lexington, Kentucky. They've had a tremendous amount of experience with the inpatient management of addicts, and in thinking along these lines, I think that certainly as a start, one could use the example of the Lexington Hospital, and there are some disadvantages, some improvements that could be established. Well, let's get to the disadvantages, Dr. Feffer, and may we not now, in considering this problem, frame a facility which will overcome those disadvantages? Well, I don't think that at the present time I'm in any position to formulate a new plan for an inpatient setup for addicts. Well, based on your own suggestions before, may we not now have an inpatient facility where we have adequate segregation to keep the juvenile away from the older addict, and we have a facility like that? Oh, yes, yes. These changes should be made, and I'm sure that the people at Lexington will tell you about many more changes that should be made. And can we have an inpatient facility now where there is adequate psychotherapy? Well, that I think is questionable, frankly. I think that a certain number of patients can be treated inside of a hospital psychiatrically right here in the city. And don't we have the advantage of the number of medical schools which are right here in the city of New York? Yes. Well, I think the point here is one, a technical point, and that is whether or not most addicts should be treated psychiatrically inside of a hospital as compared with outside of a hospital. And my own feeling is that they should be treated outside of a hospital rather than inside. It's very difficult to treat any patient when he's hospitalized. Certainly in some cases this is effective, but generally speaking, I feel it would be better to attempt to treat these patients outside of a hospital, in the outpatient facility that is in those cases where psychiatric treatment is indicated. Now this same outpatient facility that you talk of, could not that same outpatient facility also serve as the facility through which you could apply your aftercare program? Yes. This would be the major point of such a facility. in general, two types of patients would be treated at such a facility. Those who were seen originally and where it was felt that hospitalization was unnecessary, these patients could be treated with a varied program depending upon what their specific needs are. The second group of patients to be treated would be those who had been hospitalized and then discharged as withdrawn from drugs and to follow a program set up in the outpatient facility. Yes, that would be the plan. Now, Doctor, over and above everything else, would this same facility of an outpatient facility and an inpatient hospital also be the place at which we could carry forward a research program to give us the answers to a lot of the things concerning which we're all still groping in the dark? I feel that a research program would be a very necessary and vital part of such an arrangement that is of a outpatient facility and the inpatient facility. There are many basic questions to be answered. At the present time, most of us speculate about them. We have insufficient data to really know. But in general, whatever program is set up in such an outpatient and inpatient facility, the research aspects certainly should be emphasized too so that whichever methods are used can be carefully evaluated and with evaluation comes additional knowledge so that the methods themselves may be changed with the idea in mind of achieving more refined techniques, better techniques, and more adequate techniques for handling this problem. There are various basic research projects that would suggest themselves to anyone considering this problem. For example, simply the problem of prognosis. What are the factors that would enable the people in such a clinic to determine whether or not a patient has a good prognosis and whether or not he should be given this type of therapy or that type of therapy? One can know about these things only by way of trying them and evaluating the results as time goes on. There are various types of psychiatric treatment. These too must be evaluated and only in terms of what actually occurs. rather than in terms of speculation. There is no particular type of psychiatric treatment that one should start with in such a program, I feel. Also, it should be used and some conclusion reached as to which type of psychiatric treatment is effective for the addict. In other words, through the basis of the employment of that kind of a facility and project, you could evaluate then what the best psychotherapeutic approach would be for drug addicts. That's right, as well as all the other factors of treatment that would be utilized. For example, what sort of vocational training? What sort of work done by the social service worker? What sort of work in terms of changing the environment of the addict? Changing the area in which he lives. All of the various factors that would be used should finally be evaluated so that we know where we stand with this treatment. And would you include in that research program an evaluation too of what type of fallible program is best to ensure the cure of the addict? That's right. That would be the main point of it. Well now, Doctor, apart from this facility that we've talked about and apart from the research, is there a necessity for certain preventive measures at this time? My own feeling is that preventive techniques can be very important in deterring adolescents from becoming addicts. As one sees adolescent addicts, one is impressed with the fact that in many instances they simply have not known what addiction means. They have felt that taking an occasional shot of narcotics is a pleasurable experience and one that leads to no particular difficulties. But obviously this isn't true. So many of these people have become actually physically dependent. Now, the problem of prevention, preventive psychiatry, is a large field in itself and there are no quick, easy answers as to exactly how preventive psychiatry techniques should be applied to this specific problem. problem. However, there are certain things that could be used that one can be reasonably sure would be helpful. For example, one could visualize a very carefully planned and executed movie that would demonstrate the initial positive appeal of narcotics but also emphasize the negative features, jail, disgrace, physical pain, the difficulties of cure rather than the ease of getting off narcotics. Such a film could be used in the schools perhaps to be shown to these children and perhaps along with discussion afterwards by a large group of adolescents to determine two things. First, to see if they understood the film and to iron out the questions that they might have in mind and furthermore to be sure that the film doesn't do more harm than good. One simply can't be sure about whether or not such a film might give some children the very idea that you're trying to deter them from. Certainly, from the preventive point of view in terms of addiction, I think it would be highly important to devise schemes for picking up in the schools the children with severe psychiatric problems, with severe behavior disturbances. This might be done in various ways. There are various technical ways of doing it, but I think it's important at this point to say that it should be done. This obviously means that you pick up and treat a child with some emotional problem before he gets involved with drugs. Many of the adolescents that we see who are addicts, who have become involved with drugs, are terribly sick. You mean emotionally sick? Terribly sick emotionally. And perhaps, perhaps if some of these children had been picked up in the schools when they were still obviously sick, although not yet addicted, perhaps some of this could have been prevented, as well as the possibility of them having had a treatment for the severe emotional illness prior to addiction. generally speaking, Dr. Pepper, do you think that the kind of project that you've talked about is well worth doing? There's no question in my mind that this is well worth doing. I think that it represents a real opportunity not only to help the people in this particular community, but I do believe that if it's set up properly, particularly from the point of view research, and even research into the administrative setup of the clinic, this also becomes important, exactly how it's set up, can make an important contribution to people all over this country, just as in the past the biological and physiological research of the United States Public Health Service at Lexington has contributed very valuable knowledge which has been used all over. In the same way, and I feel with the same dimensions, such a facility may be able to do the exact same thing but in this new area that has opened up. And do you think that a facility of the kind that we've discussed here has a reasonably fair chance of saving our young adolescents? I would say so, yes. Doctor, over the years, you have had great experience with drug addiction cases, have you not? Yes. Now, to your knowledge, is there any specific cure for drug addiction? No, there's no specific cure. Now, frankly, why is it there? Well, drug addiction is a highly complex problem. I think it might be compared with venereal disease, syphilis. Syphilis is much simpler a disease than is addiction. We know the specific cause of syphilis. We know it's a spirochete. And we now have drugs that destroy the spirochete. It's a relatively simple arrangement. But when one comes to drug addiction, one comes to an extremely complex problem that involves environmental factors, economic factors, emotional factors, the physiology of drugs itself, the innumerable variations of emotional disorders that adolescents or adults can have. There is no one single answer except perhaps one. Just as with venereal disease, if you remove the spirochete, you cure the disease. Here, too, if one should remove the morphine, this would be the only specific morphine, heroin, or whatever other narcotic it is, this would be the only specific approach to the narcotic problem. But there is no such answer. So that it must be approached from this other, although more complex point of view. I think you testified, doctor, the psychiatry is not the full answer. Is that so? I would say that for the overall group of addicts, psychiatry is not the answer. Although this does not mean that many addicts have not been helped tremendously with psychiatry, nor does it mean that psychiatry ought not be included in a total program of rehabilitation. Now, doctor, if we can bring into play these five factors which I will now mention to you, do you think would be a workable plan and feasible going to completion? Number one, to provide for physical withdrawal. Number two, for physical rehabilitation. Number three, for psychiatric treatment. Number four, for occupational therapy. Number five, a follow-up or aftercare. If we can bring those five component factors into play, do you think that could go a long way towards reaching a solution? Yes, yes I do. And I think that it's something that in a sense the community is obligated to do. In other words, any plan to succeed must start and end with those five factors. Yes. I think you also testified that a voluntary plan wasn't feasible would have to have some compulsion feature. Is that so? Yes. Certainly, the people in the clinic should have at their command some factor of coercion to be used or not to be used as they deem necessary because of the fact that so many addicts simply won't continue with treatment if there isn't some coercion. And yet, in the long run, may be very grateful that it was used. And since the field is so fatal and really devoid of research, any plan might serve a double purpose. One, to rehabilitate the addict and number two, at the same time, have a research job done so we can finally find the answer. Yes. Is that your opinion? Yes. Doctor, there is one other thing that I'd like to get your views on. It has been suggested in certain quarters that all drug addicts ought to be registered with a health agency, either city or state or local. As a physician who's had the responsibility of dealing with addicts, what is your reaction to such a suggestion that we register or compel all addicts to be registered? Well, it sounds like a fine way of driving the addict away from treatment, which is exactly what we don't want to do. Obviously, if he has to register, he will fear that some investigation will be made or that some legal step will be taken and this certainly is not... Well, we register, Doctor. We register our tuberculosis. We register our venereal. There is a difference, I take it, in your attitude towards this class of persons. Well, the vast majority of patients with tuberculosis want to be cured and it's hard to keep them away from treatment. And they haven't committed any crime? And they haven't committed any crime, yes. But you feel that as far as the drug addict is concerned, if we register him, we open him up to investigation by law-enforcing agencies and therefore, he will run away from us instead of running towards us for treatment? Yes, I think so. I take it then that you don't think that such a plan would be of any help either to the public, to the state, or to the addict? I don't think so. I do feel that the factor of coercion ought to enter in at a different point. That is later in the follow-up camp. Thanks. Doctor, I want to thank you on the record for the fine help you gave my staff and you gave me during all these months. It's been a great public service. You came forward and helped and testified. I think we all appreciate it. Thank you ever so much. Thank you, sir. How are you, Buck? Thank you, Buck. You are listening to the second day, second phase of the New York State narcotics investigation from the state office building in downtown Manhattan. You have just heard Dr. Pfeffer, a psychiatrist, testify. We pause briefly for station identification. This is WNYC-FM, New York City's own high-fidelity station. Dr. Chapman. Station right here. Doctor, will you give your full name and your present address to the stenographer? Kenneth W. Chapman, Washington, D.C. Dr. Chapman, you are, are you not, at the present time, the assistant chief of the division of hospitals of the United States Public Health Service stationed at Washington, D.C.? That is correct. Doctor, you had your medical education at what school? Yale Medical School. And, after your graduation from the Yale Medical School, did you immediately go into service with the United States Public Health Service? Yes, I did, as an intern. And you've been with Public Health Service ever since then to the present time? That's right. So that you've had over 13 years now with the United States Public Health Service? Yes, sir. Where were you first stationed? Here in New York City where I had some beginning psychiatric training in two of the clinics here in New York. And at what particular hospital or hospitals? New York, the New York State Psychiatric Institute and Bellevue. And, when were you commissioned in the United States Public Health Service? In 1939. And, what were you doing between 1940 and 1942? I was chief of psychiatry at the U.S. Penitentiary at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. And, where did you go after 1942? I was stationed at the U.S. Public Health Service Hospital at Fort Stanton, New Mexico. And, then what followed? Following that, in 1946, I was stationed at the Lexington Hospital for a period of three years. So that you were at the Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky between 1946 and 1949. That is right. And, after 1949, what was your assignment? I was assigned to Washington on the headquarter staff of the Division of Hospitals as Director of Training and subsequently as Assistant Chief to the Division. And that's the position which you occupy at the present time. That's right, Doctor? Yes. Now, Dr. Chapman, you have certain professional affiliations, have you not? Yes, I have. Member of the American Psychiatric Association, the American College of Physicians, American Medical Association, and I am a board diplomat of the American Boards of Psychiatry and Neurology. Now, Doctor, during at least three years of your service with the United States Public Health Service, you are personally in attendance at the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington. That's right. And that's the hospital, is it not, which has been set up by the federal government for the care and treatment of drug addicts? That's right. That's one of the two. And the other of those two, incidentally, is what? At Fort Worth, Texas. And after your employment at Lexington, you've come on to Washington so that you've actually maintained your interest and your awareness of the problem of drug addiction and drug treatment ever since 1946 to the present time. Yes, sir. The Division of Hospitals has the overall supervision of Lexington and Fort Worth. Doctor, during the last 16 years, and that takes us back now to approximately 1935, how many persons have come to the United States Public Health Service Hospitals at Fort Worth, Texas and Lexington, Kentucky for treatment for drug addiction? Approximately 37,000. And, Doctor, I know that there have been isolated instances where people have come from various sections of the United States, but can you tell me what the four principal cities are from which these drug addicts have come for attention at the hospitals maintained by the United States Public Health Service? Largely from the largest ones, naturally. New York, Chicago, Washington, and New Orleans, I would say. And, Doctor, what has been the source of the greatest numbers who have come to the Public Health Service for attention? Well, that has varied from time to time. At the present time, it's from New York City. In other words, New York City is presently sending, or more people, I should put it that way, are coming from New York City than from any other city in the country. That's right. Is there any particular kind of people that come to Public Health Service for treatment? Well, how do you mean that? I mean, is it confined to any particular race, any particular economic group? Oh, no, anybody can come to Lexington who is a drug addict. Well, apart from those who can come, actually, those who do come, are they of any particular group or class? Are they separately? Are they widely distributed amongst all? They're distributed about the same ratios as in the general population. There has been, from time to time, some increases of the minority racial groups by virtue of race, by color, I mean, but by and large, the ratios have maintained much the same. And within these groups, what is the range, the economic range that you run? Largely in the lower economic scale, marginal existence to a little above marginal. Do you have people with relatively high income? Oh, yes, indeed. Now, in that high income group, what kind of people have you had at Lexington and Fort Worth? Doctors, lawyers, school teachers, professors, scientists. Might I fairly state at them that the differentials range from the relatively highest down to the dregs from the street? That is right. I take it, doctor, that since the overwhelming bulk of the people who enter these hospitals are in the lower group, we might infer that they are generally people who can't afford treatment except in a publicly operated facility. That deduction could be made, although there are other factors. Now, have you paid any particular attention to the incident of juvenile drug use as reflected in the admissions at the United States Public Health Service? Yes, we have noticed over the past two years a sharp increase in the number of juvenile drug addicts at Lexington. And do you know of any particular reason why we have witnessed this increase in the juvenile rate of admissions at the Public Health Service? Except that the demand is there for treatment. I don't know any of the causes behind it intimately and personally. All I know is what we see as a result of the kind of patients that we see. Well, in view of the fact that you have these people in the various ranges and you have these juveniles, what do you frankly think about education as an element in preventive therapy? I think education is quite important. However, I'd like to qualify that and to decry the morbid, uncontrolled education, or so-called education, which has been extant in certain of the press to the present time. The scare headlines and whatnot, I don't think, contribute a great deal to handling a proper educational background of this problem. It should be done under controlled conditions by people who know about what they're talking and about what groups they're talking to. It varies from group to group, city to city, community to community, as to how that you can approach those groups. One type of group, you can use one type of language and another group, another. Well, do you think that we need this education for our juveniles at the present time? I do. And do you think that that would be an important element in the prevention of the spread of addiction? I think so. Do you think that we could include in our educational program education not only for the children but education for the parents? Oh, I think the parents are probably one of the prime factors to strike out first in this problem. Now, the facilities which you have at Fort Worth and at Lexington, are they at the present time overcrowded? No, they are not. Are they available for additional patients today? Yes, they are. How many additional patients have you room for at Lexington today? About 150. And how many have you additional room for today at Fort Worth, Texas? 200. Uh, Doctor, Fort Worth, Texas is pretty far out, is it? Yes, indeed. Now, could you transfer some of the patients out of Lexington to Fort Worth and have more room at Lexington? Well, that, that can and has been done on occasion. What would be the top availability at Lexington if you could do that? Well, conceivably, we could transfer up to Fort Worth's capacity and leave that many beds available at Lexington. That would be 200. In other words, 200 plus and 150 you have is 350. That's right. So you could have 350 beds available at Lexington. It's conceivable, yes. Right here. In other words, Doctor, I take it that if you had a greater demand for facilities coming from the New York area, you could accommodate them at least to the extent of an additional 350 beds at Lexington. That is right. Now, Doctor, I know that you sat here and you listened as Dr. Pfeffer testified, and I'd like to get your particular views with regard to this element of compulsion which Dr. Pfeffer referred to as a necessary element, or what he said was a necessary element in the proper treatment of drug addicts. What are your own views on that? Well, I would like to say in our experience at Lexington, we pioneered, actually, in this matter of compulsion, and without going into the technical details, we were strongly behind the various laws that have been either proposed or passed in the various states and parts of the country to introduce this element of compulsion. We were strongly in support of the Kentucky law which makes it possible to retain patients in the hospital, for example. And we have, since 1940, or early 1940s, proposed such a program, recognizing that that's a very important element in the treatment of drug addiction. Well, what actually happens when that compulsory feature is omitted from a program of treatment? The patients come in and stay a few days and leave. And I take it, then, that you find yourself having wasted your own energy in your own facility, and the patient has wasted his or her time? That is right. Now, there's been some discussion that we've had here with a number of our doctor experts, and some material that's been reflected on recorded interrogations from some patients who've been at Lexington, who have decried the lack of adequate segregation of patients. Can we have the benefit of your own attitude towards that particular problem? Well, I think, and I would like to say here, it may sound defensive, but I think that if it's recognized that Lexington has pioneered in this, and as a pioneer has to go through all the vicissitudes of trial and error and not knowing the exact answers. Early, we recognize the necessity for segregation of the various age groups and the various, shall we say, patients with long histories of addiction, criminal history, and so forth, and I've had tried on many occasions to segregate the patients. Unfortunately, the structure of the hospital is not such that it lends itself readily to that type. There are other factors, such as overcrowding, which occurred in the past two years, which have made it extremely difficult to do the things which we have wanted to do. Well, if New York were to plan a facility, or if anyone were to plan a facility, Doctor, would you agree that a more ideal facility would provide for adequate segregation so that we didn't commingle? Oh, sure, definitely. There's no question about that. The confirmed addict with the younger addict, or the criminal addict with the non-criminal addict? They should be separated. Now, Doctor, I suppose as you sat here and listened to our earlier testimony, you heard also some references to the failure of a follow-up program emanating from Lexington and Fort Worth. May we have the benefit of your own expressions of opinion with regard to the advisability of such a follow-up program? Well, I would like to take issue with failure. We never had a follow-up program at Lexington. Well, I would suggest that there was a failure in that you didn't have a follow-up program, so I think we're in agreement, Doctor. I'm sorry, I would like to make that record clear because we recognized for a long time and for numerous reasons that I don't care to go into here, we haven't been able to develop it. We are strongly in favor of such a program. We did carry on a mail-order sort of campaign on trying to follow up patients, but it was most unsatisfactory, and we long recognize a need for people in the field to follow through and follow up the treatment that was given at the party. Doctor, we've had some testimony in this record with regard to the percentages of cures which under the present circumstances Lexington and Fort Worth have been able to produce. Have you any appraisal as to what percent have been cured through the facilities of Fort Worth and Lexington? We estimate that 15 percent is a pretty good figure. Now, I want to go on record as saying that is based on numerous factors, a very poor follow-up system, a more or less intimate contact with a number of patients through records and writing letters and relatives and other social agencies and so on. So it's by no means a foolproof number. It can vary plus or minus five percent. But Dr. Chapman, even assuming that the rate of cure is low and the rate of reversion is high, do you still feel that it's essential that we continue to provide facilities for the treatment of addicts? Well, until we provide adequate facilities within the knowledge that we have at the present time, I don't think we're in a position to say whether we should or shouldn't stop. We've never been able to carry through all of the things we wanted, recognizing the multitudinous factors that Dr. Pfeffer listed earlier that are involved in this thing. We've never been able to do all these things we wanted to do. Well, have you any idea, doctor, as to what happens to the addict who remains uncured and uncared? for and who's thrown out onto the community? I wish I did. I don't. Well, do you think that if we don't do something to get the addict into a facility for care and treatment, that we're not only endangering the addict, but we're endangering the rest of the public? There's no question that we are. In that respect, I take it that addiction is costly to the community even if we don't provide facilities for caring for us. That's right. It is a continual drain on the community socially, economically, for the addict's family, for whatever he doesn't contribute to society, and so on. Plus being a source of contamination for others within the community as well. Although this particular affliction that we call drug addiction is not of a family which is identifiable by a particular virus or bacteria, it is nevertheless contagious, is it not, doctor? It's contagious as most social problems are contagious. And in that respect, the addict at large is a focal point of contagion for the rest of the population. That's right. Using its broad sense, yes. Doctor, I have here a particular chart that I received from Dr. Victor Bovo of the United States Public Health Service Hospital of Lexington, which I think you may have seen. Yes, I've seen this chart. Doctor, I'm particularly anxious to have you tell us whether or not there was a rising, a rising crest of addiction as reflected in the figures of Lexington, Kentucky, even before the war in 1941. Well, those figures have to be interpreted in light of the fact that the hospital was opened in 1935, primarily for prisoner patients. And there was a long period of transition getting the patients out of federal penitentiaries and into this hospital. Not only that, it was some months, some months and years before the voluntary patients began coming in to any extent. So that I don't think that we can draw too many conclusions of this early rise that you notice on here. Let's say we start in 36 as a base period. There's not too much of a jump until 1941. roughly a thousand patients, but that can be accounted for by these several factors. But there was a jump. There was a jump, yes. And then there was a decline during the war. Yes, it evened out along the periods 45, 46. And then the rise began again after the war. Right after the war, 1947. Dr. Chapman, isn't it a fact that we had a similar rise after the First World War? Yes, it is recorded. I have seen some figures to support that. So that in some respects, this drug traffic and drug addiction have some post-war characteristic. There is some relationship. Dr. Chapman, I would like to come down to cases with you and summarize your own testimony in our program. Now, I think you also agree that there's no specific cure for drug addiction. Is that so? Absolutely. The answer hasn't yet been found. That's right. Now, and a feasible, wakeable plan would be one that would have the government, the state, and the county. Is that so? That is right. And any plan also must have a compulsory feature and not voluntary. I believe that is true. And also must provide for segregation. That is right. Now, may I repeat to you, as I see it, the five component parts or factors of a good plan. A, physical withdrawal. Two, physical rehabilitation. Three, psychotherapy. Four, occupational therapy. And five, follow-up on aftercare. And we get all those five, we have a pretty good chance of finding the answer. Is that so? That's as comprehensive a plan as I can think of. Now, doctor, you and I have had a number of conversations on this, a number of conferences. I'm going to ask you a very simple and very important question. Can you tell me now how far the government will go in this kind of introductory plan? Well, as I have said previously, it's been said on a number of occasions, the Federal Security Agency, through its various subgroups, Public Health Service being one, Office of Education, Office of Vocational Rehabilitation, and so forth, have stood ready and will continue to stand ready to assist the states and communities in whatever way they can within their limited facilities and funds and knowledge of techniques to help the communities combat their individual problems in each and its own way. On the specific ways in which the federal government can cooperate, we have, as we have discussed, these two federal hospitals. And as has been very succinctly pointed out, the great hiatus between the two operations, what happens to the patient after he leaves, what happens to the patient at the hospital and what happens to him after he gets back in his community, is one that has to be filled. And that void, I think, could be filled by a very close cooperation between the federal, state, and local people on an overall plan such as you have outlined. And we stand ready to take care of those patients that the community does not feel that are within the limits of its facilities or whatever facilities it might develop. And we would like also to request to the state to assist us in the follow-through and follow-up afterward. I think it could be a joint effort that could be very easily worked out within the present structure with practically little, no legislation, although it would take money. Anything else, Mr. Tonekhoff? Well, thank you ever so much for your kind cooperation, doctor. Thank you. Thank you. As the second phase of the investigation comes to a close, we can envision a plan of treatment and rehabilitation, a plan which has never been wholly employed or practiced in the past. This requires an integrated program consisting of five component parts, one physical withdrawal, two physical rehabilitation, three psychotherapy, four occupational therapy, and five aftercare and follow-up, all of which must function as a continuing process if anything is to be accomplished. If we are to protect society and restore the addict, we must provide adequate psychiatric treatment and wholesome occupational therapy. Most important of all, we must develop an adequate aftercare and follow-up program. once the addict retentionist community. Rehabilitation is not a one-man or a one-agency job. I repeat, requires the closest cooperation of the federal, state, and local governments. Only through such coordination can we achieve the desired result. That will be our goal. The third and last phase of this investigation will treat with the educational and penal aspects of the problem. To that end, my staff will devote itself for the next few weeks. In closing this second phase of the hearings, I again desire to thank the press, radio, newsreel, and television newsreel agencies for their cooperation and for the fine public service which they have rented. Thank you, and the hearing now stands adjourned. You have been listening to the second phase, the second day of the New York State Narcotics investigation from the state office building in downtown Manhattan. After we heard Mr. Joseph D'Ambrose of the New York State Narcotics Bureau, we heard two tape recordings. The first was the story of a successful practicing physician whose addiction began in 1942. After a spinal injury, he was given drugs in a hospital for seven months. After discharge, he continued the use of narcotic drugs as a matter of self-medication. He finally became addicted. This man entered a private sanitarium and remained there for seven months during 1943. After his discharge, he remained off drugs for four years. However, a terrific emotional upset caused his reversion in 1947. After two weeks, he felt he had again become addicted, so he entered the hospital at Lexington in January of 1947. He was given withdrawal therapy for seven days and thus gradually taken off the drug. Following withdrawal, his occupational therapy consisted of work as an automobile mechanic. He believes that there is too much preoccupation at Lexington with security and little attention is paid to the psychiatric needs of the patients. Segregation exists only during sleeping. He also says there is altogether too much contact for the novice with criminals and long-standing addicts. No attention is paid, he claims, to what the addict will do when he leaves the hospital, the most trying period for any addict. It is this doctor's opinion that much greater emphasis is needed on the psychiatric side plus a follow-up program of psychiatric attention and aftercare. This counseling service should be able to replace the crutch which the patient needs after his departure from the hospital and should aid him in developing his personality and planning his future program. We heard then the story of a New York Dr. 49 whose licensed practice was revoked and restored after his complete cure and rehabilitation. He became addicted in 1942 through seeking an easy avenue of escape from emotional distress. He began with one quarter grain of morphine to induce sleep but soon was taking 12 grains daily. He entered the United States Public Health Service Hospital at Fort Worth, Texas as a voluntary patient. Afterwards he did general farm work. Primarily he felt his main purpose had been served, his strength restored, and that further association with the predominantly prisoner addicts was demoralizing and hindered his rehabilitation, which is more or less what the other doctor had to say. He had recommendations as well. He says the lack of any segregation and the necessity for companionship would compel many people to mingle with the criminals, prostitutes, and the like, whose sole thought was to get back to their use of drugs. He said that most voluntary patients, principally professional people, showed a sincere desire to be cured. He said the lack of segregation and the absence of any psychotherapy was responsible in the main for his departure from Fort Worth. He feels that the facility at Fort Worth served its purpose insofar as it took him off drugs completely and permitted him to regain his physical health. Beyond that, it failed to provide any additional rehabilitation. He also emphasized the need for a follow-up period, a convalescent or parole period after a patient's release. The second witness of the afternoon was Dr. Arnold Pfeffer, who was the former chief of psychiatry at the Public Health Service Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky, between 1942 and 1945. He's now affiliated with the New York University Bellevue Medical Center. He divided the treatment of narcotics addicts into two phases. Number one, withdrawal therapy, that is, less and less of a drug is administered over a period of time, 10 to 14 days. This he claimed was relatively simple when competent, trustworthy assisting personnel to carry withdrawal out were available. He said it was a necessary first step, the easiest, but it's not a complete cure. He claimed general rehabilitation was the next step. The drug addict must be approached, said Dr. Pfeffer, as one with psychological problems so as to ascertain what caused the addiction. Then, too, physical rehabilitation might be shortened in most cases if the follow-up procedure were carried out. Each drug addict, he emphasized, is an individual case and must be treated as such. The doctor said that adolescents are more approachable than adult addicts. Other factors involved, of course, and adults, he claimed, are people who have been using drugs for a long time and it's become a way of life, whereas the young addict has not been using it for any great period of time. A most important fact is the fact that the adolescent is going through what the doctor described as a period of turmoil through which all teens must necessarily go. And if the teenager can get through the period of turmoil, the factor of addiction may grow less important. However, the adolescent, he stressed, has not lived long enough to find out that a life of drug addiction will not work out. Generally, he said, psychiatric treatment has not been, and these are his words, what we like it to be. Dr. Arnold Pfeffer brought out, too, that psychiatry sometimes brings out additional anxiety and also said that the addict has taken drugs originally to get rid of anxieties. However, he said that psychiatry has helped many other adolescents. He believed that compulsive measures must be invoked to make the adolescent stay with treatment, since in the long run this is best for him. The factors must be brought into play, Dr. Pfeffer believed, but treatment factors must vary depending upon the individual, he stressed this. But all treatment facilities must have all means of treatment available. Of course, he emphasized that the criminal and non-criminal group must be segregated, and those strongly motivated for a cure should be segregated from those who don't care about being cured. There are no proven, well-formulated techniques to stop drug addiction as a whole with absolute success, said the doctor. Further research is needed for better methods, because the drug addict is a complex and involved personality, and his addiction involves such factors as environment, emotion, and various other factors. The cure, the only cure, and we put this word in quotes according to Dr. Pfeffer, is remove the drug. But of course, he maintained there is no such answer. Mr. Tartikoff asked, what specific concept of a proposed clinical facility, in the opinion of the doctor, should be brought into play right now? Dr. Pfeffer replied, nothing exists at the present time. There's a great need for an outpatient clinic, which could serve as a sort of screening place, where diagnosis, observation, further action could take place, and it could also be the after care point. Also, an inpatient hospital, inpatient treatment could be administered at such a place. This must be connected with the outpatient clinic to give treatment to addicts and treatment to the drug addicts' various physical disorders, which may come along with addiction. This kind of inpatient facility would compare, said Dr. Pfeffer, to the one at Lexington, Kentucky. Whether or not adequate psychotherapy could be obtained at such an institution, Dr. Pfeffer doubted. He believes that the drug addict should be treated outside a hospital. A research program also should be set up at both the inpatient and outpatient clinics recommended by the doctor, and preventive measures are most important since adolescents are not fully aware of the dangers of drug addiction. He mentioned also instructive films on narcotics, questioning that such film might do more harm than good if a discussion afterwards were not carried out in the best of fashions by people who knew what they were talking about. The film itself should be made in the most educational fashion. He recommended that school children with severe psychiatric disturbances must be taken care of. This entire program, said Dr. Pfeffer, can serve as a facility from which all the United States can draw knowledge. Can it save our adolescence, he was asked. Yes, thought Dr. Arnold Pfeffer. The Attorney General, of course, brought out his program, which you just heard mentioned, of physical withdrawal, physical rehabilitation, psychiatric treatment, occupational therapy, and the follow-up aftercare. The doctor agreed that if such a program were brought about, it might solve the problem. Coercion, of course, must be used, maintained the doctor. In answer to the question by Mr. Totikoff, should all drug addicts be registered? The doctor said it sounds to him like a fine way, and those are his words, to drive drug addicts from treatment. The doctor was thanked specifically by the Attorney General, and our final witness was Dr. Kenneth C. Chapman, psychiatrist and assistant chief of the Division of Hospitals, United States Public Health Service in Washington, D.C. He was from 1946 to 1949 at Lexington, Kentucky, with the United States Public Health Service. At present, he said more people come to the United States Public Health facility from New York City than any other city. Generally, drug addicts are disturbed. Distributed along the same lines as the average population. Economically, Dr. Chapman said most patients are in the marginal or sub-marginal class at Lexington and Fort Worth, although there are people who are wealthy or who have been wealthy, professionals, doctors, lawyers, and so forth. The number of juvenile drug addicts has increased, according to Dr. Chapman, sharply in the past two years. He maintained that education was important and needed now for juveniles, but scare headlines and morbidity and anything of the like he decried. He also maintained that education should be done by those who know their business. Parents also need education in drug matters, said Dr. Chapman. The facilities of Lexington and Fort Worth, he maintained, were not overcrowded. If there were a demand for more beds for New York City patients, they certainly could be handled. And Dr. Chapman also strongly supported the element of compulsion in keeping patients in hospitals. Otherwise, patients come, stay a few days, and then leave. In the matter of adequate segregation at Lexington, he said that Lexington has been a pioneer in recognizing this need, but hospital structure of Lexington does not lend itself to segregation, and occasionally there has been overcrowding, another factor involved. Could adequate segregation be carried out eventually in a program such as proposed by the Attorney General? Yes, said Dr. Chapman. As for the practicality of a follow-up program, he said that the United States Public Health Service is strongly in favor of it. The 15 percent estimate was given by Dr. Chapman as a pretty good figure of those drug addicts who are cured. This is not a foolproof number. If no treatment is found, there is no question, according to Dr. Chapman, that the addicts will contaminate others and cost much money as well as do other damage. He also said that during World War II, there was a decline in the number of patients at Lexington, and during World War I, the same sort of thing seemed to happen. He maintained also that there was no specific cure for drug addiction. He too believes in the Attorney General's program of physical withdrawal and so forth. Generally, he maintained the federal government will assist states in any way possible within their bounds, the bounds of the federal government, that is, especially in matters of money. Specifically, he said the two hospitals, the one at Fort Worth, the one at Lexington, are available. There's one void in the federal plan, maintained Dr. Chapman, but this void, that of the aftercare program, can be filled in by state and community. He said he thinks this can be worked out, but there is a need for money. Then we heard a closing statement by the State Attorney General. In the public interest, we've brought you the second phase of the New York State investigation into narcotics use, narcotics traffic in New York City, conducted by the State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein. This hearing has dealt primarily with rehabilitation. This broadcast originated at the State Office Building at 80 Center Street in downtown Manhattan. The witnesses heard today were Joseph D. Ambrose, State Narcotics Investigator, Dr. Arnold Pfeffer, former Chief of Psychiatry of the U.S. Public Health Hospital at Lexington, Kentucky, and Dr. Kenneth W. Chapman, Psychiatrist and Assistant Chief, Division of Hospitals, United States Public Health Service, Washington, D.C., as well as several unidentified users of drugs, both of whom were doctors, whose testimony was brought to you via tape recording. This is Martin Bush speaking. Our broadcast engineer has been Tom Lynn. Following station identification, we shall join the facilities of WNYC-AM, which at present is at the Herald Tribune Forum. You are tuned to WNYC-FM, the high-fidelity voice of New York City. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
