This is Bob Hope. I want to tell you about a magic carpet that isn't in the Arabian Nights. A magic carpet that actually flies. This year, 40,000 Jews are being rescued overnight by shuttle plane trips from the Middle Ages of life in Yemen to modern life in free Israel. 500 a day, lost, bewildered, but happy people. Hungry, sick, poverty-stricken, scarcely realizing they are free at last to live like human beings. Rescued from persecution and degradation and slavery in Yemen. But once in Israel, their need for help is gigantic and desperate. Food, clothing, and above all, medical care. It is your contributions to the United Jewish Appeal that keep this magic carpet flying. So help bring this modern miracle to pass, to bring the lost exiles home by helping the United Jewish Appeal. This is Robert Taylor. Did you ever hear the phrase, hardcore? It's a new word around international conferences. Hardcore. It means very simply, the old, the sick, the disabled, displaced persons in Europe, whom no nation in the world will accept for a chance to start a new life. Uh, excuse me. No nation but one. The newest and smallest, Israel. Yes, Israel accepts the hardcore. Israel wants the hardcore. The homeless, the helpless, even the hopeless. Israel has pledged itself before humanity to exclude no human being who has suffered for being a Jew. But the hardcore will need help and healing and housing in Israel. Israel cannot help them to happiness and hope unless you continue to help Israel. Through the United Jewish Appeal, you have helped to work miracles in Israel. But there are still thousands of wretched people waiting at the gates. More miracles must be done. Help the United Jewish Appeal to do them. This is John Garfield. I want to tell you about a promise that was made last year. The United Jewish Appeal said it would help 25,000 homeless Jews to come to America. And some people said... 25,000? If they do, it'll be a miracle. A miracle? We brought over 39,000. The UJA promised it would bring over 180,000 to Israel in 1949. And people said... A hundred and eighty thousand? It'll be a miracle if they do. A miracle? We brought in 250,000. So you see, miracles don't happen. They're done by keeping promises. Well, the UJA has promised to bring 150,000 Jews out of Europe and the Middle East this year. That will be a miracle. But it can be done with your help. Israel itself is a miracle. But all the miracles the UJA has accomplished may be wiped out if we fail to keep our promises this year. Please help the United Jewish Appeal finish the job. This is Arthur Godfrey. I'd like to tell you a story in two short cables recently exchanged between two European offices of the United Jewish Appeal. From Paris to Budapest went this. Urgent, you return burlap bags in which last shipment of clothing was wrapped. Must have. Burlap scarce. But from Budapest back to headquarters in Paris went this. Impossible return burlap bags. Have had clothing made out of them. Clothing scarce. Kind of speaks for itself, doesn't it? We forget, I'm afraid, that there is still suffering in Europe, especially among the Jews of eastern countries, where times haven't really changed much since Hitler. People must still be cared for until they can escape. Yes, escape to Israel. Their help comes from the United Jewish Appeal, which alone stands between them and utter helplessness. And the United Jewish Appeal depends on you for help. So give to the UJA. This is Dorothy McGuire. I'd like to tell you about a miracle. Maybe you don't believe in miracles. But I assure you they still happen. Listen. This is the sound a miracle makes. That's a miracle, you say? Sounds like a lot of kids playing, just like any other kids. Well, they are kids playing. And the miracle is they're alive and playing. Because they're playing in the miracle land, Israel. Only a few months ago they were starving in Algeria and Morocco. And now they're home in Israel. Just a handful of 250,000 Jews brought home in 1949. The miracle of the 20th century. To keep this miracle alive, to keep the children playing, the United Jewish Appeal asks your help in its 1950 campaign. Don't fail the UJA. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Jack Benny. I want to ask you an odd question. Ready? Question. What year is this? You say, naturally, 1950. Sorry, but in North Africa, the year is not 1950. It is 1933. Why? Because 1933 is the year a man named Hitler came into power in Germany. And what started in Germany then is going on now, every day in parts of North Africa. That grim and dirty word, race hatred. And persecution. And ghettoization. Disease. Starvation. Death. Yes, today in 1950, they are back to yesterday in 1933. The victims of this North African 1933 must be brought to a free 1950, to Israel, where they belong. Help bring them there, out of the house of bondage, into the home of freedom, Israel. Help by helping the United Jewish Appeal. This is Franchot Tome speaking. The other day, I met a woman who said an odd thing. It's so wonderful. My son can grow up to be anything he wants. Anything. Except, of course, president. Now, what I thought is so wonderful about that? That her son can grow up to be anything he wants? Every child has that right in America. And why exclude him from the presidency? Isn't that every mother's right to dream? Well, not this mother. Because, you see, she was just out of a DP camp. Brought to America by the United Jewish Appeal. And, of course, her little boy can never be president because he wasn't born here. But every other heritage of America he can have. Freedom, health, a home, the pursuit of happiness. Yes, it is wonderful. From DP desperation to unlimited opportunity. Thousands of people have been brought here to become fine, hard-working, new Americans. And the UJA has helped them. Help America to grow greater through its new Americans by helping the United Jewish Appeal. This is Eddie Cantor. I want to dish out a couple of figures for a moment. Statistics. Did you know that there are more than 105,000 kids going to school in Israel? And that... See, mister. Just a second, kid. Did you know there are 542 schools in Israel? And that... But, mister... In a minute, son. In a minute. Now, these schools in Israel... But, mister, you forgot about me. What do you mean I forgot about you? Well, I'm not in your statistics. You see, I'm still in Europe. You're right. You're not in Israel's statistics yet. But you will be, son. You and the 63,000 Jewish children still waiting in Europe to come to Israel. You'll get there if... If the United Jewish Appeal campaign succeeds this year, it brought all the other kids to the homeland, built them schools, nurseries, and all the things vital to children, the UJA campaign must not fail. It must not fail you, my boy, and the thousands of other kids who wait patiently, hoping, praying, that they may get to the promised land, Israel. Israel. This is Henry Fonda. I'd like to tell you about a traffic light. Yeah, a plain, ordinary, red and green traffic light. To us, it's so every day. Sometimes we forget to watch. See what I mean? But recently, in Haifa, in Israel, they installed the city's very first traffic light. A little thing, but imagine, old Haifa with traffic lights. Yes, the 20th century has caught up with it, and it's going full speed ahead. on the green. And so is Israel, full speed ahead, from colonialism to freedom and nationhood. Such sudden, rapid growth brings problems. There are immigrants to absorb, homes, hospitals, schools to be built for a growing nation. The United Jewish Appeal, with your magnificent help in the past, has given Israel a green light for growth. Don't let it turn red now. Continue to help the UJA keep Israel going, full speed ahead. This is Raymond Massey. I want to tell you about a magic carpet that isn't in the Arabian Nights. A magic carpet that actually flies. This year, 40,000 Jews are being rescued overnight by shuttle plane trips, from the Middle Ages of life in Yemen to modern life in free Israel. 500 a day, lost, bewildered, but happy people. Hungry, sick, poverty-stricken, scarcely realizing they are free at last to live like human beings. rescued from persecution and degradation and slavery in Yemen. But once in Israel, their need for help is gigantic and desperate. Food, clothing, and above all, medical care. It is your contributions to the United Jewish Appeal that keep this magic carpet flying. So help bring this modern miracle to pass, to bring the lost exiles home, by helping the United Jewish Appeal. And that's why we ran out of Christ. Withstanding respect for the remover times in individuals who have danced on 무 hiciste workplace, everyца would see which Shelley quickly continues starting off the information that dispose of theFi connection is soon as always. So it's called SkyCищah for apparently the time it000 as many have received an alert Alors and the error can 0. пред Nemitzis to divide the standing ship by placing a plush at their home and канал perfectly again from the other GhID alerted and now It was הט alan Fitness
