Well, ladies and gentlemen, you've just heard the chimes in historic City Hall. The polls are closed. People may still be online waiting to vote, but officially election day is over. And now your city stations, WNYC and WNYC-FM, have marshaled all the resources of a metropolis to bring you in the most complete, up-to-the-minute election returns. Every year, your city station hears the facilities of special lines to party headquarters, official police election records, a statewide radio amateur network, and teletypes from four of the biggest news services to bring you this fastest, most complete coverage of the election results. You'll be hearing on-the-spot descriptions of what's happening at the O'Dwyer headquarters at the Hotel Commodore, the Morris headquarters at the Hotel Aster, the Marc Antonio headquarters at Aster Place, the Lehman headquarters at 383 Madison Avenue, the Dulles headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt. You'll hear the upstate results from the office of the Post Standard up at Syracuse, New York, from police headquarters here in New York, from New Jersey, and from Times Square. Our announcers are posted at all these spots to keep you informed of all developments. Here in the studio, if you listen hard, you may hear them, are the teletype machines, phones, operators, keeping in touch with all the sources of information, tabulators, markers for the special blackboards in which are to be recorded all results. And here, too, are your commentators, Harry Comer, Professor Brennan of Hunter College, Dave Lazar, Professor Earl Ryan. Your city station's coverage of this election will be heard over many of the local stations in New York, which are taking advantage of our ability to get the coverage first and are transmitting our broadcast to their audience. WNBT has its cameras right here in our studios so that television audiences may share in tonight's proceedings. All in all, we're proud of what we've done here for our listeners. We'd like to hear your comments and suggestions after you've made up your minds on just how important this coverage has been. The address you know, it's WNYC, New York, 7, New York. And now let's make the rounds of our remote points. Let's get an initial impression from the various spots where our announcers are located. And so first of all, we'll take you to police headquarters at 240 Center Street. Come in, John Savage. Here at police headquarters, 240 Center Street, our microphones are set up on a balcony overlooking the gymnasium at police headquarters where they have set up tables, and there are several hundred people now seated below us with tabulators and adding machines waiting for the first returns. Naturally, we have nothing to bring you at the moment, but things in the past few moments have just begun to begin humming, I guess we should say. And we can see the police tabulators off in the opposite side of the room waiting to get started. The precincts send these results down to police headquarters by messenger after they've been phoned in. And then they're compared and verified. So this is the place to bring you the very first returns. And all night long, we'll be having for you the first, the fastest, the most accurate returns in the citywide election. As we say, we have nothing to bring you at the moment except this air of expectancy, which we assume is the same at all the remote points, all throughout the various party headquarters, too. Here, we expect to bring you Commissioner O'Brien, and we may get some other dignitaries who come in to watch the ballot counting as the time goes by. We should be able to bring them to you because we have a hand microphone set up with a hundred foot of cord. We'll be able to walk around and take in interviews and give you on-the-spot description of this dramatic ballot counting in this election. Well, there's not too much else to report right now except to say that we're standing by waiting for the first returns, and we'll be having them hot and heavy in the very near future. In the meantime, though, back to the municipal building. All right, here we are back in the municipal building. Let's find out what's going on up there at Syracuse, New York, where Ed Jones is waiting to give us some of the late information up there at the office of the Post Standard. Come in, Ed Jones. This is Ed Jones speaking from Syracuse, New York. All set to bring you an up-to-the-minute account of election returns as they come in to us here in the editorial offices of the Syracuse Post Standard. Up to this moment, only about five minutes after the polls have closed throughout the city and Onondaga County, no results are yet available. However, we expect to be pretty busy throughout the evening tabulating and reporting the results phoned into the Post Standard by some hundreds of election night correspondents. These correspondents are stationed in every election district of the city and Onondaga County. It was fair weather and cool in Syracuse today, a beautiful day which bid fair for a large turnout of voters in the central New York area. 97,000. That's the figure political guesses were quoting as the expected number of voters in Syracuse. Incidentally, in the city itself, a record registration during an election was established. 102,081 persons registered in the city. Now, that's the largest registration to date for an off-year election for mayor. Registration for the county, that includes the city, was 178,299. Voters have cast ballots today for more than 100 public officials besides the office of U.S. Senator. One of the most hotly contested races has been the campaign conducted for mayor of Syracuse. Republican candidate Leon Abbott and Democratic candidate Thomas Corcoran are given about a 50-50 chance of winning in that election. What makes this race especially interesting here is the fact that if the Democrats do win, which they have an even chance of doing, it will be the first time that they have been in the mayor's seat in 24 years. Pre-election surveys show that popularity of both candidates is so great that either side may be victorious. One of the large question marks in the race for mayor, and also in the race for senator, is which way those people would vote who told surveyors they weren't decided yet. This percentage of on-the-fence sitters is sufficiently large in the contest for mayor to throw the election either way. However, in the senatorial election, it is pretty well conceded by political observers that Dulles will carry upstate New York. The big question is not will he carry it, but rather how much will he carry it. The on-the-fencers may decide that one. Well, we'll know before long what the trend is going to be. Now, we just want to brief you a little on our situation here. We're going to report on returns from 258 election districts in Syracuse and Onondaga County. 162 of these are in the city, 96 in the county. Through the courtesy of the Post Standard, the Syracuse Post Standard, the results are made available as soon as they're received. Our radio staff here in the Post Standard office consists of myself, Larry Myers, and Stan Hendon. Engineering facilities of Radio Center at Syracuse University have been arranged for this broadcast and are being manned by Marvin Jacobson. Throughout the evening, Larry Myers, Stan Hendon, and myself will be tabulating returns in order that we can report summary totals as we're called in to New York. And now this is Ed Jones returning you from the Syracuse Post Standard to our headquarters in the municipal building. Very, very good indeed. Now, let's see what's going on here in New York City. And we'd like to take you up to the Hotel Commodore to the O'Dwyer headquarters. Come in, Tommy Cowan. WNYC's election microphones are now at the Hotel Commodore, the headquarters for Mayor O'Dwyer, the controller of the City of New York, Lazarus Joseph, and the president of the City Council, Vincent Impelletari. There are large pictures of the candidates here in the Hotel Commodore. There is much preparation for festivity and a pleasant evening here. The amazing contrast right now is the dead quiet that we notice here at the Commodore. But, of course, we know how these things pick up impetus towards 9 or 10 o'clock, and we're all just saving ourselves and keeping very quiet and calm, knowing that the demand on us later will be very great indeed. The people are commencing to come in now. The Grand Ballroom is decorated very beautifully, the flags of our city and our own stars and stripes. The entire atmosphere here presents one of expectancy and enjoyment of a pleasant and exciting evening. The eyes of the world are on the United States of America and our government at the present time because we believe in electing a free government with the privilege of voting for the person we want and electing them to that office. That is a great privilege, and it isn't free entirely from any coercion on the part of actual government itself, except for government and candidates in government to create the enthusiasm whereby those voting for them want them to take over and guide the destinies of the country. And that is the great privilege. That was the founding idea in the Constitution of the United States, when men then established for all time in one of the greatest documents in the world, the Constitution, man's right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And that will be reaffirmed here at the Commodore from the democratic standpoint, as you will no doubt gather from the other headquarters as they report from time to time. That's all from the Commodore now. We return you to election headquarters in the municipal building. Very good indeed, and now let's find out what's going on up there at the Mars headquarters at the Hotel Aster. Come in, Everett Ball. Hello there, everybody. We're speaking to you from the choral room in the Hotel Aster in Times Square. It's here where Newbold Morris has established his headquarters. Throughout the next few hours, we'll try to bring you some of the colorful highlights of this exciting election, as seen from the headquarters of Morris for Mayor, Harry Uviller for Controller, and Matthew J. Deserio for President of the City Council. It'll be here, we expect, that the final statement of concession or victory will be heard, and whenever that happens, we hope to bring it to you directly. Just let me set the scene for a moment. As you all know, the hotel faces onto Times Square, which is a light night with an ever-increasing and fantastic array of electric and neon signs. The streets are full of people who are, for the most part, rather quiet, it would seem, for an election night of such vital importance to the city. But, undoubtedly, as the night wears on and the returns begin to show trends, the square will acquire a more and more boisterous and exciting aspect, which one has come to expect on occasions like this one. We expect our observer in Times Square will have more to tell you of this activity in just a few moments. Here inside, the blue and white pennant-draped coral room at the Hotel Aster, as yet, everybody is quite self-contained. But there seems to be rather a tense feeling, which will grow more and more tense until the mayoralty returns are in, and the decision is clear. To our right and left, here are banked the microphones and television cameras of most of the local stations and networks who are not carrying a direct feed from your city's own station, WNYC and WNYC-FM. Well, that's about all for now. We hope to bring you statements and interviews with various guests and Americans who were prominent in the campaign for Newbold-Morris later on, as well as more details and latest information on the elections obtained from the Republican, Liberal, and Fusion campaign headquarters. We return you now to the municipal building. We're back in the municipal building. We hope to be able to bring you the very, very first returns for the office of mayoralty within a few minutes. In the meantime, we'll continue our round robin, and we'd like to take you to the Mark Antonio headquarters at 13 Aster Place come in sigh free. This is American Labor Party headquarters. We're speaking to you from a room on the sixth floor of an old office building at 13 Aster Place in the midst of one of the older section of this great city of ours. The building in which we're located is on the west side of Cooper Square, just a short distance from one of the grand old landmarks of New York, the well-known seat of culture and learning, Cooper Union. Although the neighborhood in this building is quite old, the American Labor Party which holds forth here is young, by far the youngest of the major political parties involved in this election. But believe me, what the party lacks in age is more than makes up for in enthusiasm. We've been observing some of this enthusiasm for the past hour or so prior to going on the air, and although political observers generally give the ALP little chance of victory in this election, one would never suspect from the attitude of the people with whom we've talked that they expect anything but complete victory for their party slate. We've been observing some of the younger members of the party up here stringing varicolored balloons throughout the headquarters, both in this room and in the other rooms of this suite of offices, as well as making chains out of old newspapers and varicolored ticker tape which they've strung around, and the place really has a festive air. As yet, the polls have been closed, as you know, just a scant 15 minutes. We've no definite returns to bring you from this point. However, we hope to bring not only returns a little later on, but perhaps Mr. Marcantonio and several of the other candidates will be able to speak to you from these microphones. In the meantime, we return you to our headquarters in the municipal building. We're back in the municipal building now. Let's find out what's going on up there at Times Square. Come in hillity-dow. Let's try Times Square again. Come in hillity-dow. All right, let's try Lehman headquarters up there at 383 Madison Avenue. Come in Peter Gravino. Speaking to you from the Lehman headquarters at 383 Madison Avenue in New York City, here also, you might say optimism is the keynote. Everybody we've seen and spoken to so far has got a bright, cheerful look on their face, but I will admit nobody has been cornered into saying anything, giving any kind of a statement, whatever. There isn't too much activity here as yet. The place is gaily decorated. There are lots of laurel leaves surrounding the entrance to the headquarters of Mr. Lehman here, and as far as the radio and press situation is concerned, there is a lot more activity. A large radio representation is shown here. Most of the engineers have started digging in for the night with picnic lunches put away, from what I can see. A few moments ago, the Fox Movietone news camera setup was put into, not into operation, but arranged for operation. We don't know just what they're going to film here at this point. Nothing but a lot of scared announcers and engineers around at this moment. The candidate for Senator, Mr. Lehman, is not expected to make his appearance here at the headquarters until perhaps 8 o'clock this evening. It follows that things will be pretty quiet until that moment. As soon as he does make his appearance, though, we will try to have the candidate here at your city station microphone for a statement, as well as any other personalities who can give you highlights on the election and the returns and the trends as they come in. That's it for now, and we'll return you to our studios in the municipal building. All right, we're back in the municipal building. Before we try Times Square again, here's an item from Bob Adams. New York City voters streamed to the polls by the millions today and political observers predicted a record vote for the three-way mayoralty contest. The New York City vote also was considered important because the city, predominantly Democratic, may swing the balloting in the senatorial contest between John Foster Dollars and Herbert H. Lehman. An estimated 2.5 million voters were on the basis of early information to have cast their votes with warm and sunny weather stimulating the voting. The quiet procession of better than 90% of the city's registered vote of 2,774,000 was in marked contrast to the bitterness which developed among the rival slates in the final days of the 1947 congressional campaign. A force of 18,300 policemen augmented by 800 state deputies and scores of other law enforcement officers guarded the polls. It was clear that the Democrats were bringing out their strength for the party strongholds in Manhattan, Bronx, and Brooklyn were registering huge votes. The hopes of Mayor William O'Dwyer for re-election rested on the turnouts in the Democratic zones while his Republican adversary, Newbold Morris, still clung to his prediction that the GOP liberal fusion slate would sweep O'Dwyer out by 150,000 margin. Police canvassing the city every hour reported 70% of the registered vote in by 4 p.m. The news encouraged the O'Dwyer forces whose managers have forecast his return to City Hall by margins ranging from 300,000 to 728,000. Representative Vito Marcantonio, American Labor Party candidate, boasted he would win by 150,000 for reality after voting. Now once again, here is the director of the municipal broadcasting system, Seymour N. Siegel. All right, now let's find out what's going on up there at Times Square. Come in, Hillary Dill. Well, we seem to have some slight difficulty in reaching our unanswered up at Times Square. Let's find out what's going on up there at the Dulles headquarters, but before we go there, here is the first district reporting in the senatorial race. The report comes from a normally Republican Albany district. 535 votes for Dulles and 330 votes for the Democratic candidate Herbert H. Lehman. That is one election district out of the 5,677. That's up in Albany, 535 for Dulles, 330 for Lehman. And now let's find out what's going on up there at the Dulles headquarters at the Hotel Roosevelt in New York City. Come in, Bernard Buck. Good evening. We're speaking to you from the radio room of the Hotel Roosevelt at 45th Street and Madison Avenue, the headquarters of incumbent Senator John Foster Dulles and Republican candidate for associate judge of the New York State Court of Appeals Bruce Bromley. Mr. Dulles is not here at the moment, but is expected back around 8 o'clock and will remain here until final election results are in. At this early hour, all we could expect are unofficial estimates, and here is an example. Dulles headquarters expects the Republican candidate to win by a margin of 250,000 votes. Officials here report that the rural upstate vote is unusually heavy, and that's an encouraging sign from the Republican point of view. And some personalities in the news. State Republican Chairman William L. Pfeiffer, congressman from Buffalo, voted there and flew down to New York and is here now. And campaign manager Alger B. Chapman voted in Albany and is also here, having flown down earlier today. Governor Thomas E. Dewey flew down from Albany and voted near the Hotel Roosevelt, his voting residence. And when the governor arrived at the airport, newsmen asked him to make a prediction on the outcome of the election. Governor Dewey replied, I never make predictions anymore. Well, it's very quiet here in the luxurious suite set aside for reporting developments. At the moment, of course, there's nothing official to report, but as soon as there is, possibly some of the principals will address you from this microphone. We here at the Roosevelt Hotel headquarters of Senator Dulles will report to you. We return you now to our headquarters in the municipal building. All right, we're back here in the municipal building right now. Here is some additional information coming through on the race for the United States Senate. Here's another bulletin from Albany, New York. Apparently, in the first three districts to report, in Rockland County. The first three districts in Rockland County. Dulles, 915. Lehman, 413. Now, that is just three districts out of 64 in Rockland County. We'll have additional information for you very, very shortly, but in the meantime, here is Bob Adams with some late bulletins. Final ballots are now being cast in a number of closely watched election fights. And record turnouts have been indicated in at least three of the contests. Principal national significance goes, of course, to the special United States Senate race in New York. There, Democrat Herbert Lehman and Republican John Foster Dulles made the Truman Fair Deal program the principal issue of their campaigns. In New Jersey and Virginia, the voters are choosing a governor. The New Jersey race drew outside attention because Democrat Elmer Weiner was said to have been supported by Democratic leader Frank Haig. His Republican opponent, Governor Alfred Driscoll, was conceded an edge. In Virginia, Democrat John Battle is regarded as a certainty to win. Interest is also high in at least three battles for mayor, those in Boston, Detroit, and New York. In all three, off-year record turnouts are expected. The Boston race centers about 75-year-old James Curley, bidding for re-election despite his 1947 conviction for mail fraud. The Detroit race is between a businessman, Albert Cobo, and key organizer of the CIO, George Edwards. In New York, Mayor William O'Dwyer is running for re-election against Republican fusionist Newbold Morris and American Labor Party Congressman Victor Marcantonio. Here's a bulletin from the Republican headquarters in New Haven, Connecticut. Republican Mayor William Celentano of New Haven has been elected to his third successive two-year term. It was one of the closest mayoralty contests in years. The unofficial tabulations gave Celentano 34,913 votes to 34,211 for his Democratic opponent, Richard C. Lee. That's about the picture now. Once again, here is Seymour N. Siegel. Our New York State senatorial race has reached the decision stage tonight as the last of a huge outpouring of voters hurried to record their choice between Republican Senator John Forster Dulles and ex-Governor Herbert H. Lehman, the Democratic and Liberal Party candidate. The total vote is expected to approach about 5.5 million, which is a new record for a so-called off year, with late reports indicating that the farm vote was topping the most optimistic predictions. New York City voters, on the other hand, are choosing a mayor from among the present Mayor William O'Dwyer, Newborn Morris, Republican Liberal candidate, and Representative Vito Marcantonio, American Labor Party. All three cast their ballots early and invest numbers. We have here now the first reports on the mayorality election. Here are three districts in Manhattan out of 914. Morris, 342. O'Dwyer, 1064. Marcantonio, 304. Here are the first three districts reporting in Manhattan three out of 914. Morris, 342. O'Dwyer, 1064. Marcantonio, 304. Let's see whether we're getting any information up there at police headquarters. Come in, please. Police headquarters on the air once again. We're sorry we have nothing definite for you yet. As we say, we have already described the situation up here physically and how the tables are all set to go below, but so far the adding machine operators and the other tabulators are sitting around waiting for their first work to come in. The papers are being passed out to them and we expect to be able to give you the returns in a very short while. As it is now, we have absolutely nothing to say as far as concrete returns go. So back to the municipal building. All right, here we are back in the municipal building. The returns are beginning to come in here and we'll bring them to you almost as soon as we receive them. In the meantime, worldwide interest in the outcome of today's elections is reflected in the coverage which the Voice of America will give to the election returns. Here is a telephone recording between Lillian Blake of the WNYC Newsroom and Sid Berry, the Special Events Coordinator for the State Department. Hello, Sid. Hello. This is Lillian Blake in the newsroom at WNYC. Seymour Segal and everyone else down here were interested in what the Voice of America was doing about the foreign language coverage of the election, especially in terms of the New York candidates and election. Well, as it always does, Lillian, the Voice of America is giving full news coverage to this year's election. Well, how many languages will you be broadcasting in or to how many countries? We're broadcasting overseas in 20 languages. 20, did you say? That's right, 20 languages. Can you have any idea now of the degree of interest that's being manifested or won't you know until afterwards? Well, naturally, Lillian, there is much less interest in foreign countries and the results of an off-year election than in an exciting nationwide presidential election such as we had last year. But nevertheless, there are certain aspects of this year's balloting that are of interest to our foreign audiences and so we've given a full picture of what's going on. Can you tell us a little about the mechanics of your coverage, Sid? Well, the most important elections, of course, are those in New York and, in fact, these are the ones that we're dealing with because they have international interests. In Governor Lehman and Senator Dulles, New York State has two senatorial candidates who can boast of an international reputation. Now, as you know, Lehman is quite well known overseas as the first director general of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, that's UNRWA, and Mr. Dulles is familiar as a moving spirit in the bipartisan policy and as the American delegate to the many meetings of the United Nations General Assembly. So the Voice of America taking this into consideration has reported the main developments in the Lehman-Dulles campaign battle, and in our comments on the campaign between these two men, the Voice has taken pains to emphasize that as far as foreign policy goes, both of them are in the same camp, and that they both support the bipartisan policy. Let me ask you this, Sid. In connection with the actual factual news, which you'll be sending out in 20 languages and so forth, are you trying to send any message along, any particular democratic idea that's going out with the election returns? Well, yes, Lily. You see, one other point that we've made about this election in America is to show how Americans going to the polls in small towns all over the country are carrying out a very essential democratic process, that is, self-government at a local level. You know, there are many countries in Europe where the kind of things that cities and towns in America do for themselves are done by the national government, that is, services like the police and the health departments and particularly the schools in many countries. These are all organized nationally, and they're run from the national capital. And so we took this election as an occasion to talk about these matters and how they're handled in our own country, and to emphasize that that really important questions are being decided even in this off-year election. They're being decided locally by the people who are most involved. And so the election has given us an important topic for news and comment. You know, you said a few minutes ago that naturally this election doesn't have the all-out national significance of other years. Do you want to compare it a little with the coverage you'd be giving the 1950 congressional elections, for example, or the 1952 presidential election? Well, I can compare it to last year, and of course there hasn't been any of the excitement that we had last year, or the long hours for that matter. Now, last year the presidential election crowded practically everything else off of our broadcast for days, and we kept on the air in most of our languages all through the election night and on into the morning. And we learned later from telegrams that were sent in by our embassies that the news of President Truman's election had first come to many parts of the world through the voice of America. There's a very cute thing that happened, you'll get a smile out of this as we did, that Radio Moscow, which usually has nothing but abuse for the voice of America, announced the same night the election of President Truman to its Russian audience on the authority of a voice of America broadcast in Russian. Well, that was something of a feather in your cap, I should think. I'm positive it's as close as any American broadcasting setup has ever gotten to getting a fan mail of any kind from Moscow. Let me ask you one thing. Do you have any announcers around there now that might give us a sample of how the news will be sent out over the world by the voice of America? Yes, I have, Billy. I have a Russian announcer, I have a Persian announcer, and I have a Chinese announcer. Would you like to hear some of that? Yes, and will you ask them to talk loud, please, so our Russian, Persian, and Chinese-speaking audience will be able to hear them? All right, be glad. Let's have the Russian. Washington. On February 8th, the United States, there are elections in the United States. In New York, where the election is the mayor of the city and other municipal servants, and also a number of judges, eight political parties have been sent to their candidates. For those of the audience that didn't understand what he said, he said that today, November 8th, there are taking place in the United States elections to various agencies of local self-government. In New York, where the mayor and other members of the municipal administration, as well as a number of judges, are to be elected, eight political parties are submitting their candidates. Now, you see, Lily, in that way, we get across the idea that this is a multi-political party country, and each one has a chance to say something. Cut. Here's a Persian announcer. Okay, thank you very much, Sid Barry and Lilian Blake. That's very, very interesting. Now, here are some of the first returns coming in. For a United States senator here in New York, one election district in Brooklyn, one out of 1,267. Give Dulles, 142. Lehman, 504. We have the first report on the borough presidency in Brooklyn. One election district out of 1,267. Stock, 167. Cashmore, 454. Here's the latest returns on the mayorality. Four election districts out of 3,889. Morris, 500. O'Dwyer, 1,521. Mark Antonio, 404. Here's a report from upstate New York. The first district to report returns in the U.S. Senate race in Delaware County. Two out of 62 districts in Delaware County. Dulles, 495. Lehman, 76. Of course, that's a predominantly Republican county. From Albany, here's a report. The first district of Rensselaer County. The first district of Rensselaer County. Dulles, 304. Lehman, 164. Here's a bulletin from the United Press. Waterbury, Connecticut. Republican Mayor Raymond E. Snyder was swept into office for his third straight term tonight by winning the largest plurality in Waterbury's history. Mayor Snyder defeated his Democratic rival, Patrick S. Shea, by a plurality of 18,291. Syracuse. Supreme Court Justice E. Howard Ringoes of Rome has been re-elected. Justice Ringoes was nominated by both the Democratic and Republican parties for justice from the 5th Judicial District. At the moment, here are the returns we have for you. In New York, for the mayorality, four districts that are 3,889. 500 for Morris, 1,521 for O'Dwyer, 404 for Mark Antonio. In the borough presidency, we have one district out of 1,267 giving Stark, 167, Cashmore, 454. In the senatorial race, we have seven districts reporting from upstate, seven out of 5,677. Dulles, 2,249. Lehman, 983. We have one district on the senatorial race reporting in Brooklyn giving Dulles, 142. Lehman, 504. And one district reporting in Manhattan on the mayorality. Morris, 288. O'Dwyer, 942. Mark Antonio, 131. We have another district reporting here in Manhattan on the mayorality. I wish we could find out where these are coming from. Will you check these, please? One district in Manhattan, 129 for Morris, 166 for O'Dwyer. Here's another district in Manhattan, 1096 for Morris, 1862 for O'Dwyer. Mark Antonio, 929. We have another district here in Manhattan for United States Senator, Dulles, 153. Lehman, 167. Now we understand that Mr. William Pfeiffer, the chairman of the Republican State Party, the Republican headquarters at the Roosevelt Hotel, that's right, that's the Dulles Hotel. We understand that Mr. William Pfeiffer is ready to make a statement. Come in, please. We're speaking to you from the Roosevelt Hotel, the radio room, where Mr. William L. Pfeiffer, the chairman of the Republican Party of New York State, is here to make a statement on his views on the election. Good evening, Mr. Pfeiffer. Thank you very much, Bernie. The early returns have shown from upstate that my prediction of a few days ago, Senator Dulles, who'd come down to the Bronx line, with a morality of over 700,000, are in fact a reality. I am sure, too, from the early returns that we've gotten from the city, that Senator Dulles is sure to be a winner by a majority of over 250,000 votes. Mr. Pfeiffer, when we went on the air a little while ago, we said that you voted in Buffalo and arrived here in New York City to watch the election as it proceeds. When did you arrive in town, sir? I arrived in town about 1 o'clock, Bernie. I did vote in Buffalo, and my wife and I took a plane and flew direct to Newark. And from there to New York City and headquarters where you'll remain the rest of the evening, I presume. That's right. Okay, thank you very much. Successfully. Thank you, sir, for coming to our microphone. You've just heard the Republican State Chairman, the Honorable William L. Pfeiffer, who gave his views on the election at this early hour. We'll be back with more news as soon as it develops here at the Roosevelt Hotel. We return you now to our headquarters in the Municipal Building. We're back in the Municipal Building. We're beginning to get the first returns on the statewide office, the Associate Judgeship to the Court of Appeals from the Bronx. We have two election districts out of 797. Bromley, 60. Fressel, 458. Those are two election districts from the Bronx out of 797, and they came from the 6th Assembly District in the Bronx. that same two election districts on the mayoralty. Morris, 77. O'Dwyer, 328. Our totals here at the moment on the senatorial race, we have returns from nine districts out of 9,565, most of them from upstate. As a matter of fact, seven, eight of them are from upstate. For Dulles, 2,544. For Lehman, 1,657. Now, here are some other late bulletins. Leaving the greater New York scene for the moment, here are returns from the area. Norwalk, Connecticut. Socialist Mayor Irving C. Friese of Norwalk was re-elected today for his second successive two-year term. Hudson Falls, William J. Reed Republican, has been elected to the State Assembly from Washington County. He was unopposed. From Cooperstown, New York, Otsego County Judge Joseph Molinari has been returned to office. Molinari, a Republican, was endorsed by the Democrats, and there was no contest. The room is very busy at this moment. Busy as it is, it is the lull just before the storm. Once again, here is Seymour N. Siegel. All right, here's a bulletin from Syracuse, New York. 15 out of 258 districts for Onondaga County. 15 out of 258. Dulles, 9006. Lehman, 8,781. Now, the reporting districts are in the city of Syracuse where the Democrats hoped to elect a mayor for the first time in 24 years. In 1946, Lehman lost Onondaga by 37,342. Now, we understand there are some results coming in at police headquarters. Take it away, police headquarters. Yes, here at police headquarters, things are beginning to hum now. We're able to report some official election returns. The first Manhattan election district to report for mayor was the 37th election district of the 4th Assembly District. It gave Morris, Republican, 93, Morris Liberal, 88, Morris Fusion, 5. The Morris total was 186. O'Dwyer, Democrat, 387, Mark Antonio, American Labor, 168. The first King's election district to report for mayor was the 10th election district of the 23rd Assembly District. It gave Morris, Republican, 96, Morris Liberal, 11, Morris Fusion, 2. The Morris total was 109. O'Dwyer, Democrat, 333. Mark Antonio, American Labor, 95. Continuing with the mayoralty race, the Bronx mayor, first election district out of 797, Morris, Republican, 39, 39, Morris Liberal, 139, Morris Fusion, 6. The total for Morris was 184. O'Dwyer, Democrat, 35, Mark Antonio, American Labor, 169. Now, in the senatorial race, the first King's election district to report for U.S. Senator was the 10th election district of the 23rd Assembly District, giving Dulles, Republican, 148, Lehman, Democrat, 291, Lehman, Liberal, 19. The Lehman total was 310. In the Bronx, for United States senator, 11 election districts of 797, Dulles, Republican, 35, Lehman, Democrat, 309, Lehman, Lehman, Liberal, 150. The Lehman total was 459 in the Bronx. That's about all we have for right now from the, for the mayoralty and senatorial races. They're coming off on the tickers and also coming off down below where you may hear some of the beehive of activity that's going on with these tabulators. We're able to report in the Bronx the senatorial race. Now, we've given this to you already. Let's see now. The Queens, the first Queens election district to report for United States senator was the third election district of the 10th Assembly district, giving Dulles, Republican, 394, Lehman, Democrat, 201, Lehman, Liberal, 17. The total for Lehman was 218. And the first Queens election district to report for mayor was the third election district of the 10th Assembly district. It gave Morris, Republican, 252, Morris, Liberal, 11, and the Morris Fusion nothing. The Morris total was 263. O'Dwyer, 336. Mark Antonio, the American Labor Party, was 21. What else do we have here? The first Manhattan election district to report for U.S. senator. We've already given you the first Manhattan election district reporting for mayor. For senator, it was the 69th election district of the third Assembly district. It gave Dulles, Republican, 125. For Lehman, Democrat, 252. Lehman, Liberal, 112. And the Lehman total, 364. We'd like to remind you again that we're bringing you the official returns as they're tabulated right here on the floor of the gymnasium, I think it is. Yes, it is, at police headquarters, 240 Center Street. And we'll have more of these returns for you as they come right in. Now, just for a moment, back to the municipal building. All right, we're back in the municipal building now. Here are the first 10 districts reporting from Kings County. That's from Brooklyn on the mayorality. 10 out of 1,267. Morris, 2,554. O'Dwyer, 3,201. Mark Antonio, 593. That's 10 Brooklyn districts out of 1,267. Here are the same 10 Brooklyn districts on the United States senatorial race. 10 out of 1,267. Dulles, 2,158. Lehman, 3,879. Those are 10 districts out of 1,267 in Brooklyn. Now, we have a report for the presidency of the council from Queens. This is one election district out of 797. Deserio, 232. Impelletieri, 438. Here is the first report from Queens on the Comptroller's race. On the Comptroller's race, one election district out of 797. Uvalere, 236. Joseph, 430. Here is the first report on the Court of Appeals from Queens. One election district out of 797. Bromley, 211. Fresel, 461. Here is a report from Queens on the senatorial race. One out of 797. Dulles, 351. Lehman, 344. Here is a report on the mayorality from Queens. Morris, 251. O'Dwyer, 444. Mark Antonio, 20. Here is a bulletin from the United Press. Returns from 11 out of 797 election districts in the Bronx. 11 in the Bronx on the senatorial race. Dulles, 35. Lehman, 459. Here is one district in Manhattan on the senatorial race. Dulles, 132. Lehman, 509. Here is another district in Manhattan. Dulles, 196. Lehman, 3,234. Now we believe we have additional information for you. Up at the American Labor Party headquarters at 13 Aster Place. Come in, please. We're back once more at American Labor Party headquarters at 13 Aster Place. We have at our microphone right now one of the principal candidates on the ALP ticket, Mr. Paul L. Ross, the candidate for Comptroller of the City of New York. Mr. Ross is a former Administrative Secretary to Mayor O'Dwyer and a veteran of 11 years of municipal service. Mr. Ross came into our room a short while ago and he has consented to give us a statement on the conduct of the poll so far. Mr. Ross. Well, Mr. Freed, I've just returned from an all-day tour of the city polling places, making the rounds of all the polling places in our clubs. On the basis of this tour, I believe the final outcome of the mayoral race is assured for the American Labor Party. The unexpectedly large turnout of voters so early in the day is a sure sign that the people in New York are turning out the old crowd from City Hall. In East Harlem, Harlem, Red Hook, the Lower East Side, Williamsburg, Brownsville, Jamaica, and various parts of the Bronx, where registration was proportionately among the highest in the city, I saw the voters have flocked out to vote early and in large numbers. The Board of Elections failure to remedy the admitted defect in the voting script designating the various parties, which I saw on the machines myself, on which letter C was deliberately made to resemble a no as a cheap political slate-of-hand trick, as was the rash of non-working voting machines, purposeful delaying of voters while online, last-minute shifting of polling places, and things like that. However, at this hour, we're more confident that the American Labor Party is really on the doorstep for victory, as I think results tonight will prove. Thank you, Mr. Ross. You've been listening to the candidate for Comptroller of the City of New York on the American Labor Party ticket, Mr. Paul L. Ross. At the present time, the chief candidate of this party, the candidate for mayor, DeVito Marcantonio, is not in our building, but we hope that he will arrive here shortly, at which time we may be able to have him at our microphones. For the present, that's all from the American Labor Party headquarters. We return you now to our campaign headquarters in the municipal building. Here we are back in the municipal building. We have returns from 24 of the 3,889 city districts in New York on the senatorial race. Dulles, 24 out of 3,889. Dulles, 577. Lehman, 987. Apparently, there's some slight discrepancy here at the moment. Let's get this checked. The latest figures we have in New York City right now, 23 districts out of 3,889. Dulles, 2,783. Lehman, 7,750. The total for the state thus far, total for the state thus far, we believe to be 45 districts reporting out of 9,565. Dulles, 22,805. Lehman, 17,554. At the moment, the mayorality race, 19 districts reporting out of 3,889. Morris, 4,906. O'Dwyer, 7,899. Mark Antonio, 2078. On the presidency of the council, we have 3 districts reporting out of the entire city. Deserio, 575. Impelletieri, 662. Ingersoll, 52. In the Comptroller's race, we have 3 reporting. Uvalair, 574. Joseph, 658. Ross, 52. With more than a score of scattered districts reported, all from upstate, we now have 17 districts in Delaware and Onondaga County. Dulles, 9,501. Lehman, 8,840. Now, here are some bulletins from White Plains. We have bulletins, the first of which is from Syracuse, New York. Democrat Thomas Kukoran has been elected mayor of Syracuse. His victory ends a 24-year Republican reign over the city. A bulletin from Hartford, Connecticut. Mayor Cyril Coleman was re-elected to the Hartford City Council today, and having gained the largest number of votes among the council candidates, he automatically becomes mayor for a second two-year term. From the White Plains, Westchester County, First Ward, District 3, Dulles, 347, Lehman, 283. White Plains, Westchester County, Second Ward, Fourth District, Dulles, 325, Lehman, 234. First reports on the election via amateur radio and news services. White Plains, Westchester County, the Fifth Ward and Fifth District, Dulles, 217, Lehman, 171. From Albany, Albany's Democratic Mayor, Erastus Corning, has taken almost a five-to-one edge over his Republican opponent, Charles E. Walsh, Jr. The vote from the first four districts reporting, Corning, 1,693, Walsh, 439. Here is a bulletin from Bridgeport, Connecticut. Socialist Jasper McLeavy today was elected to his ninth consecutive term as mayor of Bridgeport. His total of 28,849 was greater than the combined votes of his Democratic and Republican rivals. J. Lawrence, O'Toole, the Democratic candidate, received 13,602 votes. A. Edward Sandula, Republican, 11,338. Here is a second report from the White Plains, Westchester County, the Fourth Ward, Fifth District, Dulles, 417, Lehman, 131. White Plains, Westchester County, the Fifth Ward, 6th District, Dulles, 375, Lehman, 227. Keep tuned to your city station for the up-to-the-minute returns, which, as you hear, are beginning to roll in now. And, by the way, we'd like your appreciation and any comments you have to make on the returns coming from your city station this year as in years past. Just drop a line to WNYC, New York 7. Now, once again, here is Seymour and Segal. All right, we've still got some additional returns here on the mayorality race. The latest reports we have right now, 19 out of 3,889 in New York City. Morris, 4,906. O'Griah, 7,899. Mark Antonio, 2,078. We have 10 districts reporting from Queens County. 10 out of 797. O'Dwyer, 3,474. Morris, 2,187. Mark Antonio, 660. That's 10 districts in Queens. Out of 797, Morris, 2,187. O'Dwyer, 3,474. Mark Antonio, 660. From Syracuse, New York, here's a senatorial report. 32 up in Onondaga County, 32 districts out of 258. Dulles, 15,210. Lehman, 17,038. That's 32 out of 258 districts up in Onondaga. That's up in Syracuse, New York. Now, here's another report from White Plains, Westchester County. This is one election district reporting. Dulles, 417. Lehman, 268. I believe we have additional information at police headquarters, so we take you there now. Come in, please. Here at police headquarters, we've been listening to you from the municipal building. We believe you have some returns that are ahead of us, but we have some that are ahead of you. For instance, in the mayoralty race in Queens, we have 25 election districts of 797. Morris, Republican, 4,895. Morris Liberal, 1,128. Morris Fusion, 40. Morris Total, 25 election districts of 797 in Queens, 6,063. O'Dwyer, 8,877. Mark Antonio, 1,588. Now, the Court of Appeals race in Kings County, 10 election districts of 1,267. Bromley, 817. Fressel, for a total of 4,374. The Court of Appeals race in Queens, 10 election districts of 797. Bromley, 2,238. Fressel, a total of 3,527. Queensboro president, 10 election districts out of 797. Lundy, Republican, 2,194. Fitzgerald, Democrat, 3,424. Murphy, American Labor, 275. Rifkin, Liberal Party, 247. Now, we have some other returns here on the Manhattan, Queens, and Bronx senatorial race. We'll give them to you quickly. Dulles, in 10 election districts out of 914 in Manhattan, 1,545. Lehman, 4,482. Queens senatorial race, Dulles, 3,276. The Lehman total, 2,752. In the Bronx, the senatorial race, 717 for Dulles, in 10 election districts out of 797. 717 for Dulles, and the Lehman total, 3,843. And before we send you right back, we'd like to say that the first Richmond election district to report for mayor was the 52nd election district of the first assembly district, giving Morris a total of 96, O'Dwyer a total of 294, Mark Antonio 32. Back to the municipal building. All right, here we are back in the municipal building. We're beginning to get some reports on the race for district attorney. one election district out in Brooklyn. Caddy, 187. McDonald, 408. Torcini, 23. Levian, 15. We also have some additional information on the borough presidency out in Brooklyn. This is an isolated election district. Stark, 159. Cashmore, 436. Jackson, 26. We'll be back in a moment. We pause now for station identification. WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM speaking to you from Studio A, the general headquarters of our election return setup. Right here in the municipal building, headquarters of the municipal broadcasting system. Here are some isolated returns from districts in White Plains, Westchester County, the 2nd Ward, 2nd District, 3rd Ward, 1st District, and the 2nd Ward, 3rd District. The combined totals of those districts represent votes for Dulles, 1,069, and for Lehman, 611. other returns coming in from White Plains and Westchester County. Dulles, 160, Lehman, 122. Similarly, Dulles, 206, Lehman, 88. Those returns, again, from districts in White Plains representing Westchester County. And now, here again, the director of the municipal broadcasting system. All right, here we are, additional information from Hamilton, New York. Madison County, that's 5 districts out of 49. Dulles, 1,339, Lehman, 415. That's 5 out of 49 districts in upstate New York. We'll have a summary on the senatorial race for you very, very shortly. Here is some information on the presidency of the council. Ingersoll, one election district out of, one election district out of 700, 1,267. Deserio, 217, Impelletieri, 386, Ingersoll, 28. From Syracuse, New York. Syracuse, Democrats tonight shattered a 24-year Republican City Hall rule by electing Thomas J. Cochran, Democrat, Mayor, by a margin which may hit 10,000. The state's fourth largest city also gave Herbert Lehman a lead in the Senate race over John Forster Dulles. We have at the moment reports from Onondaga County, 32 election districts out of 258, give Dulles 15,210, Lehman 17,038. Now, the Syracuse vote could be a body blow to upstate Republican votes for Dulles. Remember, back in 1946, Lehman lost Onondaga County by over 37,000. And now, with only one-third of the city's districts missing, Cochran, that's Mayor Cochran, was leading by 7,000. Now, there's a number of split votes up there indicating that Lehman would not carry the city by the same margin as the Democratic mayorality candidate. Here is some more information from, in connection with the Justice of the Supreme Court, the 2nd Judicial District. We have 25, the 25th election district of the 10th Assembly District complete in Brooklyn. Giacconi, 263, Hart, 374. The latest information on the mayorality as of this moment, 74 out of 9,565 districts reporting. Dulles, 67,282. Lehman, 35,576. Now, all of that is, or most of that is upstate. Three-quarters of it is upstate. The returns here in New York City, we have 32 districts out of 3,889. Dulles, 7,781. Lehman, 16,785. Here is an isolated report from Brooklyn on the mayorality race. Morris, 2,574. O'Driar, 4,640. Mark Antonio, 659. Well, let's see what's going on up in different parts of the city. Let's find out what's going on up there at Times Square. Come in, please. Hello, here we are at last. Broadway and 42nd Street, the crossroads of the world, Times Square. And there are plenty of people in Times Square this evening, more even than there were in the last presidential election. Apparently, the people of New York City are greatly concerned about the outcome of tonight's election. There have been so many predictions either way that they've come down to Times Square, a good deal of them, to see the results flashed up on the screen which is posted on the Times building. And right now, for instance, we're seeing that John Foster Dulles grabs a 2-to-1 lead over Herbert Lehman, but these returns were entirely from heavily GOP territory upstate. There are crowds and crowds of people around us. Traffic is moving rather slowly. The area is well protected by policemen, both from crowds and from automobiles going too fast. In fact, it looks just like a holiday here at Times Square. For some reason or other, a tradition has appeared with respect to holidays in New York City and, in fact, the nation. Comes election night, New Year's Eve, the 4th of July, any festive occasion or the excuse for one, and the American likes to celebrate. He likes to get out and go, and he likes to go where there are other people. Perhaps that's why Times Square has come to be regarded as the yardstick of New York City's festive spirit. There are always people on Times Square at any hour of day or night. There's always someone to talk to, someone to share your coffee with, someone to share your troubles with, too. That's Times Square, Broadway 42nd Street, New York City. Times Square, the crossroads of the world. And since it is the crossroads of the world, why, we ought to be able to find a cross-section of the sentiment of the people of New York City at this election tonight. And we have set up our own straw poll outside our police booth here at 43rd Street, Times Square. And we are questioning and will continue to question people to find out, to see if we can find out some indication of the way that the vote is going to go. Thus far, we have questioned about 200 people. And this is the way it shapes up in our straw poll. We repeat, these are not election returns. This is a poll taken in the Times Square area. Thus far, we have 40 votes for Mayor O'Dwyer, 30 votes for Newbold Morris, 13 votes for Vito Marcantonio. That's the mayor's vote. And for Senator, we have 61 for Lehman and 21 for John Foster Dulles. That would indicate, if you want to project that vote, a vote of 4 to 3 in favor of Mayor O'Dwyer over Newbold Morris. And a vote of 3 to 1 favoring Herbert Lehman over John Foster Dulles. Times Square is lit up as usual. The signs are going, the signs are blazing, in fact. Automobiles are going up and down the thoroughfares. And everywhere you look, you see people, people, and more people. I think our returns up here on the screen are a little bit ahead of some of the returns that you've received over there. Right now on the screen, we see that Donald Kramer was elected mayor of the traditionally Republican town of Binghamton. That's all the news we have for you at this time from Times Square. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. All right, here we are, back in the municipal building. We've just gotten a report from the 4th Assembly District. There are practically half of the district reporting on the mayorality. Morris, 5,344. O'Dwyer, 9,084. Mark Antonio, 4,234. Now from those same 25 election districts in the 4th Assembly District on the senatorial race, Dulles, 587. Lehman, 9,403. Now that is half of the 4th Assembly District here in Manhattan. Now the latest returns that we have them at the moment totals, 87 districts reporting out of 3,889. Morris, 19,156. O'Dwyer, 27,046. Mark Antonio, 7,832. Now we have some results on the senatorial race. In the Bronx, 50 districts out of 797. Dulles, 6,703. Lehman, 21,824. In Brooklyn, 30 districts out of 1,267. Dulles, 7,420. Lehman, 9,897. We have a total for the city at the moment on the senatorial race of 91 districts reporting. 91 districts are reporting out of 3,889. Dulles, 14,814. Lehman, 27,713. Those are the latest figures we have at the moment on the senatorial race. Here's a bulletin from Bridgeport, Connecticut. Socialist Mayor Jasper McLevy has been re-elected. And now let's see whether we have any additional information from Bob Adams. Returns coming in from White Plains, Westchester County, combined districts representing votes for Dulles, 575, and for Lehman, 321. It is believed that these returns are brought to us through the facilities which we are enjoying tonight from the statewide radio amateur network. Other returns of the same nature, White Plains, Westchester County, again giving Dulles the lead. From the 1st Ward, 4th District, Dulles, 429, Lehman, 137. The 6th Ward, 2nd District, Dulles, 552, Lehman, 158. The 5th Ward and 1st District, Dulles, 590, Lehman, 212. Returns are coming in. This time, once again, we return you to Seymour in Segal. All right, and now we'll take you to police headquarters where I understand they have some late information on the mayorality. Come in, please. Well, we've been listening to your coverage of the senatorial race and of the mayoralty race, so we're going to change things just a little and bring you some information on the other races for the president of the city council, 10 election districts in Manhattan out of 914, Deserio Republican, 992, Deserio Liberal, 341, Deserio Fusion, 291, the total, 1,624, Impelletary, Democrat, 3,510, Ingersoll, American Labor, 1,256, Alpha Borough President of Manhattan, 10 election districts out of 914, Root, Republican, 1,271, Root Fusion, 40, total for Root, 1,311, Wagner, Democrat, 3,401, Wagner Liberal, 779, total for Wagner, 4,180, the American labor candidate, Guignet, 964, for controller, 10 election districts of 914 in Manhattan, Uvalier, Republican, 1,038, Uvalier, Liberal, 693, Uvalier Fusion, 26, the total, 1,757, for Joseph, Democrat, 3,329, Ross, American labor, 1,119, for controller, 10 election districts out of the Bronx, 797, Uvalier, Republican, 540, Uvalier Liberal, 989, Uvalier Fusion, 3, total, 1,545, Joseph, 2,959, Ross, American labor, 720, now for the Court of Appeals in the Bronx, 10 election districts of 797, Bromley, Republican, 701, Frostle, Democrat, 2,719, Frostle Liberal, 1,494, the total being 4,213, now the president of the city, the council, 10 election districts, Kings, 1,267, Deserio Republican, 858, Deserio Liberal, 1,112, Deserio Fusion, 19, the total being 1,989, 4, Impelitari, 3,387, Ingersoll American labor, 797, District Attorney Brooklyn, 10 election districts out of 1,267, Caddy Republican, 896, Caddy Fusion, 27, total, 923, McDonnell Democrat, 3,334, Torchin American labor, 622, Levine Liberal, 1,070, now we are, I think our overall city mayoralty and senatorial races are just a little behind yours because we have to have the official verified reports here and so we won't give those to you, we are giving you the other races though and things are certainly, tension is certainly heightened a lot here at police headquarters and we'll be ready to go on the air with a complete new set of figures in just a few moments. In the meanwhile, back to the municipal building. All right, here we are back in the municipal building. That was very, very good. That really gave us quite a batch of, quite a batch of information. We'll give you a summary of everything as we have it in just a few moments. In the meantime, here are 20 districts out of 668 up in Erie County. That's Buffalo, Lehman, 5,071, Dulles, 4,127. That's 20 out of 668 districts in Erie County, which is predominantly Democratic and which indicates that according to these figures. Now, at the moment, here's the way we stand. On the mayorality, Morris, 20,447, O'Dwyer, 28,866, Mark Antonio, 7,721. That represents 92 out of the 3,889 districts reporting. We have 23 districts out of 3,889 in the race for the presidency of the council. Deserio, 4,190, Impalitieri, 8,113, Ingersoll, 2,053. On the controllers race, 24 districts out of 3,889, Yuvalier, 4,063, Joseph, 5,375, Ross, 1,891. In the race for the borough presidency, Manhattan, 3 election districts out of, we beg your pardon, 10 election districts out of 914. Root, 1,311. Wagner, 4,180. Guinea Air, 964. In Brooklyn, 35 election districts out of 1,267. Stark, 14,634. Cashmore, 23,607. Jackson, 117. In Queens, we have 1 election district out of 797 reporting. Fitzgerald, 522. Lundy, 185. On the senatorial race, we have totals now, 154 districts reporting out of 9,565. 154 out of 9,565. Dulles, 43,650. Lehman, 74,608. Of the 154 districts reporting, 96 are from New York City. And now, here is Bob Adams with some light bulletins. From Trenton, New Jersey, a heavy turnout at the New Jersey polls was hailed tonight by Republicans as favorable to Governor Alfred Driscoll, who is seeking re-election against Democratic State Senator Elmer Ween. But Ween was confidently awaiting the results in Vineland, Cumberland County, which sent Ween to the State Senate, reported heavy balloting. Minor election disturbances were reported from Atlantic County, but in general voting proceeded in an orderly fashion. Here are the first returns in the New Jersey gubernatorial election. They give Democrat Elmer Ween 440 and the Republican incumbent Alfred Driscoll 121. From Binghamton, New York, the traditionally Republican upstate New York City of Binghamton, elected a Democratic mayor. Donald W. Kramer, Democrat, was elected by a very heavy majority. And now let's see what the picture is at this point. The elections are coming in, of course, and there is a great deal of confusion around our dais, which rests here in Studio A, the general election's headquarters for our election return set up here in the municipal building. All right, we've just gotten word that Mayor Jasper McLeavy, who's just been re-elected up there in Bridgeport, Connecticut, has made a statement over the phone to our newsroom. Here it is. Well, anytime you want to, if you want to wait a minute and write it down, then we'll record it anytime you want to say it. I want to express my thanks and gratitude to the people of Bridgeport for the fine support that they have given to our socialist administration here today. after 16 years in public office, we have received the overwhelming support of the people of our city. I feel that that is an indication that we have given to them throughout these years an administration that has brought our city to a fine, outstanding position in the sisterhood of American municipalities. Thank you very much, Mayor McLeod. This is a nice term for you, isn't it? Yes, this is a nice term, yes. Well, good luck to you and thank you very much. All right, here we are back in our municipal building headquarters. Here are 126 districts out of 3,889 in Greater New York on the senatorial race. 126 out of 3,889 in Greater New York. Dulles, 24,510. Lehman, 46,681. All right, we'll have additional information for you very, very shortly and now we understand they have some late bulletins for us up at police headquarters. No, they do not. We're sorry. We thought we'd be able to get some additional information up there but apparently we do not. Now, here's a report. 50 districts out of 797 in Queens County. 50 districts on the mayorality. 50 districts out of 797 in Queens County. Morris, 11,593. O'Dwyer, 17,577. Mark Antonio, 2,529. That's the latest 50 districts out of 797 in Queens County on the mayorality. Now, up in Albany, reports from 40 of the state's 9,500-odd election districts show Democrat Charles W. Fressel of Jamaica leading Republican Bruce Bromley of Brooklyn for a seat on the State Court of Appeals. 40 districts for Democrat Fressel, 11,464. For Republican Bromley, 7,729. Now, we'll have some additional information for you very, very shortly. Here in Manhattan, here's a bulletin, five election districts out of 914. Morris, 821. O'Dwyer, 1984. Mark Antonio, 506. Here's a bulletin from the 3rd Assembly District, five out of 10 election districts. Dulles, 1130. Lehman, 1862. That's here in Manhattan. Now, let's give you a summary of the total vote we have on the senatorial race as of this moment. Here in the city, 140 out of 3,889. Dulles, 20,774. We beg your pardon, here's a later one. 176 districts out of 3,889. Dulles, 31,951. Lehman, 69,460. That's in New York City, 176 out of the 3,889 districts reporting. Now, we'll give you a state total in just a moment, but in the meantime, from Nassau County, here is our first report on the senatorial race. 15 districts out in Nassau. That's 15 out of 403. Dulles, 3,791. Lehman, 1,486. From Westchester County, our latest report on Westchester. 3 out of 439 districts give Dulles, 889. Lehman, 771. Here's a report from Yates County. Yates. We have 7 out of the 21 districts in Yates. Dulles, 1,354. Lehman, 493. Now, we'll try and get you a state total on the senatorial race in a moment. Additional figures are coming in. Let's find out what's going on up there at the, here's the latest report on the mayoralty right now in New York. We have 201 out of the 3,889 districts reporting. Morris, 45,640. O'Dwyer, 66,776. Mark Antonio, 14,437. The returns from 201 of the city's 3,889 districts on the senatorial race. 201. We beg your pardon, we have later figures here, 255. No, we're talking about a citywide total, 201. Dulles, 36,046. Lehman, 78,924. Now, the upstate total, Dulles, 26,683. No, there seems to be something wrong there. Your total at the moment, total at the moment, Dulles, 58,634. Lehman, 101,126. Those are the total statewide returns with the majority coming from New York City. We'll have additional information for you very shortly. In the meantime, let's find out what's going on up there at Center Street. Come in police headquarters. Well, quite a lot has been going on here at police headquarters. Mayor O'Dwyer has just arrived. He was here for about three minutes, I would say, and when he came in, all of these tabulators and workers who are taking care of the election results as they come into police headquarters stood up and applauded him. The newspaper photographers and movie photographers were taking pictures. We lowered a hand microphone onto the next floor below us and we went down and attempted to get the mayor to make a statement. However, he is not going to make a statement until such time as a prepared statement can be issued evidently at his headquarters. However, he greeted everybody here. He and the police commissioner were right with us. Now, I believe you're ahead of us on the citywide senatorial race. We, however, can report 126 election districts out of 3,889 for citywide mayor. Morris has a total of 27,682. O'Dwyer 40,836. Mark Antonio 10,993. Now, in the Court of Appeals race, citywide 45 election districts out of the 3,889. Bromley 6,414. The froissal total is 17,563. Now, the last we heard, you reported 92 election districts for the mayoralty race, and we had 126. I don't know how that stacks up now, because as we say, we've been attempting to get the mayor and the police commissioner on for an interview. We can give you some returns from the Bronx and district attorney, 25 election districts out of 797, Morrison, 1,718, DeLuca, Democrat, 6,884, Troopan, American Labor, 1,443, Stein, Liberal, 2,241, Portnick, Fusion, 42. The senatorial race, 100 election districts of 797 in the Bronx, has Dulles, 12,321, Lehman, 41,565. The Court of Appeals race in the Bronx, 50 election districts of 797, Bromley, Republican, 420, rather, correction on that, 4,214. Frosel total for Frosel is 19,630, which I think makes it a little more than the citywide totals which we were able to give you just a second or so ago. The president of the city council in the Bronx, 50 election districts out of 797. Deserio has a total of 10,199. Impilitary has 15,768. Ingersoll of American Labor has 3,439. Now we're trying to see if we have anything further in a citywide race to bring in. We have a lot of Queens results here. City Court, which so far hasn't been reported on, I don't think. We have 25 election districts of 797. McKinney, Republican, 10,311. Steyer, Democrat, 17,113. Port, American Labor, 1,811. Marcus, Liberal Party, 1,658. Now let's see if our president of the city council, we've reported to you from the Bronx, and we reported in the citywide race, let's see, we had 70 election districts out of 3,000. I guess we had something before that would supersede that. The citywide senatorial race, we have 350 election districts to report here. Wait a minute, we have a mayoralty here too, so hold on just a moment. In the senatorial race, 350 election districts of 3,889. Dulles, 64,352. Lehman, a total of 137,581. We'll give those to you again. Dulles, 64,352. Lehman, 137,581. Now that's for 350 election districts. In the mayoralty race, 251 election districts out of the 3,889. Morris has a total of 55,055. O'Dwyer, 80,854. Mark Antonio, 22,139. Those numbers again, Morris, 55,055. O'Dwyer, 80,854. Mark Antonio, 22,139. That's the citywide senatorial and mayoralty race up to this moment. That's about all we have right now. The mayor and the police commissioner have both left the police headquarters, so we'll return you to the municipal building. All right, here we are back in the municipal building. Let's find out what's going on up there at the Morris headquarters, up at the Hotel Aster. Come in, please. Well, we don't seem to be able to get the Hotel Aster up at Morris headquarters. Come in, please. We'll try them again. We'll try them again a little while later. In the meantime, here are the latest returns on the senatorial race. 351. 351 out of 3,889 districts in New York City. Dulles, 64,511. Lehman, 137,807. Now, those are returns from 351 out of the City's 3,889 districts. Here's the latest returns on the mayorality. Returns from 251 out of the City's 3,889 election districts. Morris, 55,055. Odwya, 80,854. Mark Antonio, 22,139. Now, we'll see whether we can't get you a total on the senatorial race for both New York City and for upstate New York. In the meantime, here is Bob Adams. You are tuned to New York City's own station, WNYC and WNYC-FM, for our special coverage of the election results which have been coming to you since the polls closed at 7 o'clock tonight. If you've been enjoying this early on-the-spot return, the most complete and the fastest in the city, we'd like to hear from you. Any suggestions or comments which may serve to improve our coverage on the next election may be appreciated. Just drop a line to WNYC, New York 7, New York. Our facilities for this extensive coverage include the following, a statewide radio amateur network, the police headquarters resume, the four largest news services reports, and of course on-the-spot broadcast from the headquarters of the candidates, direct phone lines with party headquarters in each borough and with Syracuse's report center. Keep tuned to your city station for the most complete and thorough coverage. The White Plains Young Republican Club is on hand tonight in full strength, giving assistance to this circuit to visitors. The headquarters is rapidly filling up with leaders from all over the county, eagerly awaiting the first reports. A stronghold in New Jersey, in Hudson County, the stronghold of Democratic boss Frank Haig, reported on the basis of 11 districts out of 658, Governor Driscoll, 2,514, Wiener, 2,099. And now for other information, here is Seymour and Segal. All right, we've just gotten a report that Gallup of the Gallup poll predicts a victory for Lehman. Now, of course, let's see whether we can give you the latest information that we have. Gallup predicts that the Democratic Liberal candidate, Herbert Lehman, will receive 57% of the votes, and John Forster Dulles, his Republican opponent, will receive 43%. Well, at the moment, here are the totals as we have them. In New York City, there are 351 districts reporting. That's approximately 9% of the vote. Dulles, 64,511. Lehman, 137,807. Upstate, we have 216 districts reporting out of 5,677, roughly about 5% of the upstate districts. Give Dulles, 63,380. Lehman, 61,673. Which means, as of the moment, with 567 districts reporting, roughly about 6% to 7% of the entire state in. Dulles has 127,891. Lehman has 199,480. Now, let's take a look at the mayorality. We have 261 out of 3,889 districts reporting for the entire city. Morris, 57,426. O'Dwyer, 87,031. Mark Antonio, 22,139. At the moment, approximately 5% of the city vote has been tallied. Returns on amendment number five, that's that civil service point preference system for veterans, from two out of the 9,000-odd districts, yes, 126, no, 218. Both districts were from upstate. Now, we have a report from Suffolk County on the senatorial race. Suffolk County. Dulles, 12,612. Lehman, 6,105. That's 47 districts out of 208 out in Suffolk County. Now, here are the latest results as we have them on the district attorney's race in the Bronx. 25 election districts out of 797. Morrison, 1,718. DeLuca, 6,784. Troopin, 1,143. Stein, 2,241. The district attorney's race out in Brooklyn. 18 election districts out of 1,267 reporting. Caddy, 3,170. McDonald, 7,416. Torchin, 622. Levian, 36. In Manhattan, Manhattan. We have no reports on the Hogan situation here in Manhattan, but here is some other information on the mayoral, on the senatorial race in New York City. 376 districts out of 3,889. Lehman, 150,180. Dulles, 69,556. Here is the 4th Assembly District complete in New York on the mayoralty. Morris, 5,839. O'Dwyer, 9,948. Mark Antonio, 4,577. Here is the complete returns from the 4th Assembly District on United States Senator. Dulles, 1,183. Lehman, 16,985. 400 election districts in New York reporting on the mayoralty. 401 out of 3,889. Morris, 91,122. O'Dwyer, 133,392. Mark Antonio, 28,312. In just a moment, we're going to ask Professor Earl Ryan of City College to give us some information on the Associate Judgeship of the Court of Appeals. In the meantime, in about two minutes also, we expect to take you to the Hotel Aster where there is a statement forthcoming from John Wells, the campaign manager for Newbold Morris. But in the meantime, here's a report on the Court of Appeals. The candidate, Bromley, 6,414 votes, and Fressel, 17,563. Those are incomplete. Thank you very much. Here now is a report on the United States Senatorship, the 3rd Assembly District complete. That's in New York City. First of all, here's a total, 310 election districts, New York State, Dulles, 172,227. Lehman, 194,514. And now we believe that they're waiting for us up at the Hotel Aster. And before we go there, let's give you a short pause for station identification. You are tuned to WNYC, the voice of New York City, and WNYC FM. Tonight being Studio A, General Headquarters for this extensive election coverage return from the Municipal Building. And now we're going to take you up to the crossroads of the world, up there to the Hotel Aster, to the Morris Headquarters. Hello, everybody. Well, as you can imagine, here in the choral room at the Hotel Aster, there's tremendous excitement prevailing. We can see through the great folded doors just facing us the grand ballroom where the Republican Party tabulation is in process. And we might say for our listeners' benefit that the tabulation is a good deal behind that being given over WNYC. We expect to bring you in just a moment a brief statement by the campaign manager for Newbold Morris, John Wells. We see he has just come up to our microphone on the floor here, and in just a moment he will be ready to speak to you. because the information coming over our earphones here is the latest information, we have had great difficulty in keeping our hands on our earphones. But here now is Mr. Wells, campaign manager for Newbold Morris. Good evening. Well, it's a little early to tell you just what the people did at the polling places today. only about 350 election districts out of 3,900 have reported so far. Mr. Morris was running fairly far behind at first, but the gap is narrowing. Without precise details and information as to the election districts and the sections of the city from which the vote came, it's impossible for us to make any prognostication as to what the result will be. It's going to be close. That's what it looks like at the moment, particularly if Mr. Morris continues to close the gap between himself and Mayor O'Dwyer. Mr. Wells, can I ask you a question or two? First of all, as a campaign manager for Newbold Morris, you're probably the most vital man in the headquarters tonight. Are things so far going the way that you planned them? Well, things never go the way you planned them. if you can depend on one thing in a campaign, it's confusion. Well, let me ask you, let me phrase the question a different way then. Have there been any disappointments for you so far, or is there anything on the other side of the fence? Well, it's a disappointment that Morris isn't running a hundred thousand ahead. I know how you feel about that. Well, tell me now, do you feel confident? Well, I'll tell you quite frankly, I don't feel anything at the moment. I'm going to wait and see how the election districts come up and we'll let the evening take care of itself a little later on. All right, Mr. Wells, can we count on having you back here around an hour from now or so to talk? My fellow citizens, we have just come through one of the most important elections in many years. I thank the people of my state for their trust in me. At this moment of victory, I feel a deep sense of humility and of profound gratitude. With the struggle over, I shall take my seat in the United States Senate as the representative of all the people of our state. It will be my purpose to serve the general welfare of all of our citizens as I have sought to do throughout my long public career. I pledge to your service all the strength of mind and body and heart that lies in me. Once again, my profound thanks for the great new opportunity of public service which now lies open to me. I hope that I shall in the future as in the past so conduct myself as to justify the confidence which you have placed in me. With God's help, I trust I shall not fail. Thank you. With those remarks and this official statement by Governor Herbert H. Lehman, we have concluded the victorious election program here at the Independent Citizens Committee headquarters at 383 Madison Avenue. We might say that the reaction here, while a very happy one, is not a frantic one. It's an orderly kind of happiness. People are generally satisfied, content, seem kind of sure of what the outcome might be. And so we bring to a conclusion now our broadcast of this particular aspect of the election campaign from 383 Madison Avenue. Return you to our studios, our election campaign headquarters in the municipal building. Can I get into the ballroom? Can I get into the ballroom? We expect Mr. Morris' speech of concession in just a moment. We are speaking to you from the choral room in the Hotel Astor, which has been Newbold Morris' headquarters throughout this campaign, which began for Mr. Morris here in this very room just about two months ago when he accepted the part he was to play in this election. Hands are being raised. His microphone is open, so you will hear him when he begins. At the doors, a stationed policeman in their dress uniform, their high collar, glittering gold buttons. This is Newbold Morris' headquarters at the center of the laughter in part of New York City. Our equipment is the proper pass, over here on the left. And next to him is Mrs. LaGuardia. Mr. Newbold Morris, I'd actually like to say a few words now to the audience of New York City. Yes, there is Mr. Morris. My friends and fellow New Yorkers, I have just conceded this election to Mayor O'Dwyer with almost all of the election district counts in. I have given my heart and soul to this campaign, and all I can say is to those who believe in the cause of good government, it's worth fighting for, even if you don't make it. Hooray! Hooray! And to those younger people here who will have to carry on this fight, I'd like to just say one thing. I would rather go down to defeat in a cause which will ultimately come to fruition than win in a cause which will ultimately fail. Thank you very much. You have just heard the speech of concession given by the Republican candidate for Mayor of New York City, Mr. Newbold Morris. This is coming to you from the call room in the Hotel Astor, which has been the headquarters of Newbold Morris, Harry Uvila, and Matthew J. DeZero. We return you now to the municipal building. I've just sent this telegram to Mr. Lehman. The people of the state of New York have decided the election. By their vote, they have chosen you to the United States Senate. I congratulate you and wish you well in this position of high responsibility, signs John Foster Dulles. I just want to add these words. We've had a good fight. I want to thank all the workers of this state who have worked with me. And I believe with absolute conviction that the principles which we have fought will prevail. This is the first round, but it's not the last round. And I believe that the results of this election show that the principles for which we have fought will and must prevail. I thank you all. Will you stay there, please, Senator? All right. This concludes the coverage of your city station of the latest developments from the Hotel Roosevelt headquarters of Senator John Foster Dulles. As you've just heard, Senator Dulles has made the statement conceding the election to his Democratic liberal opponent, Herbert Lehman. He first read a telegram addressed to Mr. Lehman. The atmosphere, as we said before, is now at an intense level of excitement with the photographers and their flashbulbs popping all around. And congratulations for a good fight being given to everybody concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes have been counted, and I have the honor with my running mates to be re-elected for another term. During the campaign, we tried, in every way we knew how, to set before the people the problems of the city as we have seen them during the four years that have gone by. We tried to show what we did to meet those problems. We also pointed out what still remained to be done. The Board of Estimate that will take over January the 1st will be practically the same Board of Estimate that has been in charge of the running of this city for the last four years. changes will be negligible in our program, if at all. The financing, the planning, has been completed long ago for the things that must yet be done. That will be done, precisely as we told you during the campaign. I am happy at this moment in one great respect, that despite the fact of a campaign of filth and dirt unmatched in this city and all its history by the opposition to us, despite the fact that they were supported wholeheartedly by practically all the newspapers in this city, nevertheless, neither the bilge, the filth, nor the newspapers were able to fool or change the minds of the people. In that, I take this great happiness that the people are not as easily fooled as the newspapers and the politicians that opposed us thought they were going to be. The people want a program, a sensible one. They want it clearly stated. And I know that I'm speaking for my associates in saying that we do appreciate the fact that the people know what we were talking about. And by the overwhelming vote that they gave us, they did two things. They told those politicians, who resort to filth and calumny, that that is not the way to win an election. I do hope the babies that ran against us will learn that in the next four years and someday, someday, they might get off their ice skates and be he-made. Now, that so much for the newspapers and so much for the calumnies. That's out of the way. Our next step will be to proceed to carry out the programs that we explained to the people were yet to be done. That we are going to do. We ask you now to have the same confidence in us that you had during the four years and that you have shown today and we, in turn, dedicate ourselves in this happy moment to a still greater service to the people of our city, state, and nation. Thank you very much. I just heard the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, in answering and conveying to you the people of the city of New York his responsibility and his anxiety for the government of the city of New York in the new responsibility which the voters have placed upon his shoulders. We do know that New York City is the greatest city within a state anywhere in the world, superseding in importance possibly an actual state itself. But at the same time, we do know that the situations that the city of New York faces and the responsibility which falls on the shoulders of the mayor of the city of New York and the members of the Board of Estimate who will succeed in carrying out the plan and the program of you, the voters of the city of New York, will find every factor vindicated in the fact that you have re-elected the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, the members of his cabinet and the Board of Estimate for the best and finest government that the city of New York can possibly look to. The eyes of the world have been on the city of New York in this election to see how we, the people of the city and of the state and nation influentially, select our people to govern. And they are our choice and they, in carrying out the wishes and the mandate of the vote, are the representatives of we, the people of the city of New York, in our own immediate locality and in every other situation where voting pertains, the city, state, and nation is represented. These free elections are a lesson indeed to the world itself and the world has been watching with great interest this election here in our city. Our very best wishes go to William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, to Controller Lazarus Joseph, and the president of the city council, Vincent Impeletary, the members of the board of estimate and all those who will carry the burden of this billions and billions of dollar corporation, the city of New York, and its responsibility to you, the people. And in this, I feel sure you will be vindicated in every way the confidence you have expressed here in the vote today. And so we take leave of you from Mayor O'Dwyer's headquarters at the Hotel Commodore and return you to our studios in the municipal building. industry.