With your grand permission, we take a recess from the program for the ladies in order to bring you an important award program from City Hall, where the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Aron Pelletieri, will make safety awards in the annual safety award program that is now in its third series. Abram D. Beam, Assistant Director of the Budget, will act as chairman and introduce the regular order of program. Mr. Beam. Mr. Mayor, Lady and Gentlemen, I see there's one lady in the audience. This ceremony marks the second annual award of the safety program. The first award was made last year and was won by the Sanitation Department. This accident control program was initiated in 1948 as part of the City's Management Improvement Program. Its purpose was to reduce accidents through carelessness and mechanical failure, and in that way improve employee morale with the resultant reduction in costs. In the less than three years of the operation of this program, almost 90% of the City's 170,000 employees have been covered and are engaged in this program. The City, therefore, is the largest municipality in the world engaged in an accident control program and has the largest program in the world. We have already trained more than 15,000 supervisors who, in turn, are training the more than 150,000 employees engaged in this program. Ever since its institution in 1948, we have shown improvements in each of the years. In this last year, among other indices of improvement, has been the fact that with more than 2 million man hours additional work, there has still been a reduction of almost 175 accidents. This program is truly an employee activity. It is run by a coordinating committee made up of representatives of the various departments. And in order to keep abreast of all the latest methods and techniques in safety, the City has joined the National Safety Council and has received from it much valuable information, which has been disseminated to the departments and is constantly being distributed to them. There are present here today, many of the supervisors engaged in this program, heads of agencies and borough presidents whose departments are also covered in this program. And among others, we have Professor Wright, the President of City College, who has cooperated very wholeheartedly in this program by assigning to the Division of Analysis under whose direction the program has been operating, and Mr. Latina, who is an outstanding safety expert and who is on City College staff. We are also honored today to have with us Mr. Ned Dearborn, the President of the National Safety Council. We know of the Mayor's deep interest in this program and appreciate that in these busy times, with all the problems confronting him, he has found time to come here, to make the awards to those departments who have shown the best improvement for 1950. It is a pleasure for me to introduce his honor to Mayor. Mr. Beam, President Wagner, Commissioner Monaghan, Mr. Dearborn, Dr. Wright, Dr. Latina, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure for me to participate at these ceremonies this morning, at which awards will be made in the City's Annual Safety Contest for the year 1950. In the year that has gone by, additional strides have been made in the City's Accident Control Program, designed to reduce employment hazards to a minimum. This important undertaking is being carried forward under the cooperative auspices of the Division of Analysis of the Bureau of the Budget and City College, whose distinguished President, Dr. Harry N. Wright, is here on the dais. We are also happy to have with us today, Mr. Ned H. Dearborn, President of the National Safety Council, which day in and day out, carries on such an effective program in accident control and prevention. I am happy to see here so many department heads, because our accident control program is now being carried forward in 21 city departments employing 157,000 men and women. Such growth in our safety work would not have been possible without the active support and leadership of the various commissioners and the safety coordinators in these municipal agencies. I am happy to report that our overall improvements since the program was instituted in the spring of 1948 is in the neighborhood of 13 percent. For 1950 alone, there was an 8 percent improvement over 1949. The important business of this meeting is to present the annual trophies to award winners and to hear Mr. Dearborn. However, I should like to emphasize that our accident control program is based on a continuing plan of education and training, particularly for supervisors, so that the two prime causes of accidents, human failure and mechanical deficiency, will be brought to their irreducible minimum. We find it strange now to consider that even a few years ago, accident control had only the most limited application in this city. The appropriate and effective means, which had been applied for over 50 years in private industry, were virtually unused in this city or any other level of government. With the demands on manpower during World War II and the growing recognition that ethics and humanity demanded employee protection came a strong effort. One may say a nationwide effort to overtake and wherever possible to surpass the record made in private industry. One may say a few years ago, but it is a significant effort. One may say a few years ago, the President's Conference on Industrial Safety, the Federal Safety Council, the many state and municipal programs, and the splendid leadership in this essential sphere provided by the National Safety Council. I am happy to note that our city departments were equal to the demands made upon them by the new program. The record they have made is the basis for today's occasion. The awards to be given are the means both of recognizing their accomplishment and encouraging even better performance in the future. If there is one thing above all others, which we may say of organized safety, it is this. Organized safety saves lives. That alone makes it worth all the effort. That alone gives the awards I am to make today their real significance. To our uniform forces, we award medals for heroic deeds. Similar decorations are given for heroism on the field of battle. We regard our safety trophies as perhaps humbler awards, but we attach no less significance to the feats which they are intended to celebrate. I have no hesitancy in calling employee safety a record of quiet heroism. It has all the elements of this virtue. Exemplary conduct, intelligent discipline, meticulous regard to the severest demands of duty. The spirit of our entire city working force has been improved by our safety program. Our work is done with greater efficiency because efficiency demands safe operation. Through safety, we achieve economy. And nobody desires economy more than I do. Our division of analysis, which coordinates the safety program, has a very close and specific identification with that word economy. Its special position in the safety program shows precisely what economy means to us. We believe we can save up to half a million dollars through avoidance of accidents. It means also avoidance of waste of manpower, which daily grows in value as our defense program is accelerated. May I now call upon the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Borough President of Manhattan, whose department in 1950 reduced the frequency of injuries from 41 per million man-hours to 33 per million man-hours. This represents a 19% improvement in its safety record. The office of the Borough President of Manhattan thereby has achieved first place in its standing among city agencies for safety achievements throughout the year. I offer my heartiest congratulations to Mr. Wagner and his staff and hereby present him with the first prize trophy. My congratulations, Mr. Wagner. The mayor is now handing this beautiful safety trophy to Borough President Wagner. And now the next citation. Our second award goes to the Fire Department for its safety improvements during the year 1950. Will Commissioner George P. Monaghan please accept on behalf of his department the second prize trophy. The Fire Department, carrying a heavy and a dangerous job, reduced the frequency of injuries from 49 per million man-hours to 41 per million man-hours. This represents a 16% improvement. May I extend heartiest congratulations to you and to your department, Commissioner Monaghan. The mayor now hands his very handsome trophy to Commissioner Monaghan. And now the mayor. I wish to thank each and every one of you for the very real help and support that you have given New York City's safety control program. I hope that next year we may have awards beyond the first and second prize trophies. So that even more recognition may be given to this very important work by our loyal and devoted civil servants. And now your chairman, Mr. Abram D. Beam, Assistant Director of the Budget. Mr. Beam. We have a special added feature attached to this ceremony. New York City and Mayor Impeletere are to be honored for their outstanding efforts in accident prevention. For this purpose, I am privileged to introduce one whose name is synonymous with safety. Mr. Ned Dearborn, President of the National Safety Council. Mr. Dearborn. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, President Wagner, Commissioner Monaghan, Dr. Wright, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, President Wagner, Commissioner Monaghan, Dr. Wright, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor of the United States. Having lived in New York City 16 years, it's a particular pleasure for me to return on an occasion of this kind. University in 1942 to take up the work with the National Safety Council, where our headquarters, as you undoubtedly know, are in Chicago. I have had a great many rewards for the work of the National Safety Council in the last few years, but none is more gratifying than the opportunity to appear before a group like this to recognize a good job well done. I remember shortly after I went to the National Safety Council that the first city official with whom I talked about safety, and who I notice is the chairman of the coordinating committee for the accident control program was Inspector Skye, who I see down here in front of me. I'm delighted to see him here and in that capacity too. The work that has been done by the City College deserves special mention as the mayor's already done. I'd like to add my word to that too. The work that has been done is really a beginning, as you know. Started back in 1948. It took some time to get the various departments actively interested. There are still a few that are not actively participating, but I am assured by your people here that it won't be long until every city department is taking a part. A reduction of 10% in one year's time of the accident frequency is altogether commendable. I noticed in one of the stories about the work published in Safety News that the analysis division of the Bureau of the Budget estimated an annual direct loss of $2 million in compensation alone, and also estimated about four times that amount in indirect losses. Now that is to the city. What the losses are to the individuals who are killed and injured is something else and equally important, although not easy to translate into dollars and cents. I'm awfully glad to note the emphasis that has been placed upon the humanitarian side. When we think of the amount of suffering that takes place through preventable accidents, and nearly all of them are, it is an appalling thing that we in this country will permit such an amount of misery to continue. We have not only 90,000 deaths per year, which is an average of one every five minutes and 47 seconds, but we injure beyond that point several million more, almost 10 million. And some of those non-fatal injuries, I am confident, are from many points of view even worse than death. They leave people crippled, they leave them permanently impaired in one way or another, sometimes totally so for the rest of their lives, and therefore they become a burden to society as well as to their families and sometimes to themselves. I mention that merely by way of additional emphasis to what the mayor has already said. A second point that I'd like to emphasize further, and that is the manpower problem in this country. A few years back, especially in the time when I was living here, we had a period when the people of this country thought we had a surplus of manpower. Well, along came the beginning of the last decade, and we discovered that we had a shortage of manpower. And that has persisted to the present time. Not only were we in the 40s compelled to produce for the war effort, which was a global one, and therefore an extensive one, but we also were compelled to carry on our normal civic enterprises and normal individual and family living. Since the war stopped in 1945, we have had a condition which has required equal emphasis on the importance of manpower. We found ourselves the most powerful nation on earth. Economically, we had suffered less than any nation on earth, and in many other ways too. And so we were called upon to provide food, grain supplies, raw materials of various kinds, heavy machinery, money, manpower to our friendly nations throughout the world. And that required more and more production. And the people of this country responded. It's a great tribute to management and to labor that we had in this country that kind of a response, because our production in all lines, in the aggregate, increased to the point where since the war in 1945 ended, we have produced more than we ever did during the war and, of course, before the war. Now then that we are in a defense program, which has many of the elements of a first-rate war and promises some more, although we all hope and pray that nothing like that really eventuates, we are faced with the problem of defense and expenditures for defense programs of various kinds and still trying to maintain our high standards of living in this country. And to maintain those precious freedoms for which we have lived all these years and fought many wars. And so our importance of manpower is very clear. And when a city of this magnitude takes the leadership, it is important for us to note it. When the mayor and his official family make special effort, not only in the interest of the city's finances, but in the interest of its employees as human beings, with as many employees as this great city has, the largest city in the world, largest number of city employees, then we have a right to make some commendation for that splendid effort. And while you're just getting started, as I said at the beginning, and there's still much to be done, I'm sure that the efforts of the last three years have demonstrated to each one of you the importance and the feasibility of this program. The National Safety Council, which I represent this morning, its officers, its board members, and its staff, join me in this sincere commendation for the fine efforts that you have done. If we can do more, we would be glad to do it. The Greater New York Safety Council is strong and has excellent leadership, and I'm sure you can secure additional help from them as time goes on. But in any way that we can help through our own national headquarters office in Chicago or through the Greater New York Safety Council, I assure you, Mr. Mayor, that we want to do it. So in conclusion, let me read the commendation which I have signed and addressed to his honor. On this occasion of the presentation of the city's safety awards to the boroughs and departments, the National Safety Council extends its heartiest congratulations. The program of accident investigation, technical safety training, and employee education undertaken by the city of New York is a most commendable effort, one which will continue to reduce financial loss to the city and personal suffering to its employees. It is appropriate that the largest American city should so effectively provide leadership in the field of safety for municipal employees. Through the close cooperation of your safety officers, with the public employee safety program of the National Safety Council, the effects of that leadership have been felt throughout the country. It is with the most sincere pleasure, therefore, that I extend to you, as mayor of the city of New York, this expression of our appreciation for your city's substantial contribution to the safety movement. And with our congratulations, also our best wishes, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much. Mr. Dearborn has now presented the citation by the National Safety Council to the mayor of the city of New York, Mayor Impelletieri. Dearborn, I want you to know that the mayor of this city representing all of these employees and the department heads who are really honored today. I'm very happy and pleased to receive this award of the National Safety Council. These things are only made possible by close cooperation between the governmental heads of the city, the department heads of the city, but without the wholehearted cooperation of the employees in these departments, it would be absolutely impossible for us to achieve this kind of distinction. I'm happy to note that, as you so well pointed out, that this safety program has two aspects. One, it means real economy, and number two, it means safety for our large body of civil servants. So, in their behalf, Mr. Dearborn, I say to you that we appreciate this award very much. I assure you that the city will continue its safety program even in an accelerated way. I want to let you know that practically all of our department heads are assembled in this Board of Estimate Chamber. I know that the city will be a great number of the supervisors who are responsible for effecting the means for achieving these safety measures in the departments. And I know that with these awards, and particularly with this award by the National Safety Council, that all of the people assembled in this room will be spurred on to greater efforts. Thank you all for your attendance here today. Radio's microphones from the Board of Estimate Room and City Hall have brought you the... On behalf of the 157,000 employees engaged in this program, I want to thank all of you who have found the time to come here and express their appreciation for the continued support and cooperation in this all-important work. Thank you. Mr. Abraham D. Beam, Assistant Budget Director, was the chairman of today's proceedings in City Hall when the annual safety awards were made. The awards going to the Borough President of Manhattan, the Honorable Robert Wagner, and to Commissioner Monaghan of the Fire Department. The purpose of these awards being three. The prevention of death and injury to city employees, of which there are, as the mayor has stated, 157,000. The other being the reduction of lost time, which is a very important matter in a group of employees numbering 150,000, 157,000. And the attendant reduction in compensation payments. The safety program is in the third award here today in City Hall, having been inaugurated in 1948, to bring about greater consciousness of safety in the transaction of the tremendous volume of business of the great and wonder city, New York. That is all from the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall. And now we join with the program now in progress. WNYC, the voice of New York City. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, President Wegner, Commissioner Monaghan, Dr. Wright, Ladies and gentlemen. Having lived in New York City 16 years, it's a particular pleasure for me to return on an occasion of this kind. I left the New York University in 1942 to take up the work with the National Safety Council, where our headquarters, as you undoubtedly know, are in Chicago.