This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beast. On April 28, 1947, President Truman issued an executive order which stated, The representative on the seat of the United Nations, and representatives to organs and agencies of the United Nations, shall be known as the United States Mission to the United Nations. That's what we want to talk about. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Mr. Eichelberger, a leading authority on the UN, is heard each week at this time in a discussion of topics of vital concern to the UN, bringing to this microphone, whenever possible, world leaders who are making history in the United Nations. Now, the UN is my beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger. In an office building at Two Park Avenue in New York City, a certain number of floors are set aside for the United States Mission to the United Nations. Limousines frequently pull up at the door, load their passengers, and then rush under the tunnel to Long Island, and out to the United Nations Headquarters at Lake Success or at Flushing Meadows, if the General Assembly is in session. A few blocks away from the building at Two Park Avenue, there arrives the first building, the 39-story skyscraper, to house the permanent United Nations Headquarters. In many ways, this is the most interesting and novel arm of the American State Department to be found anywhere in the world. The United States Mission to the United Nations has often been compared to an embassy in its duties and responsibilities, but from the severe office building in which it is located to its manifold activities, it is far from embassy-like in appearance. Tonight, it is our great privilege to have as our guest, Mr. Thomas Power, Jr., who is a Deputy Secretary General of the U.S. Mission. I'm not going to give the who's who biography of Mr. Power. What you and I are interested in, the fact that he has degrees from Amherst, Columbia, and Harvard, and for a while he taught at Notre Dame and then joined the Department of State. As you might say, he really grew up with the United Nations, or the United Nations with him, because in 1942 he was, he joined the post-war planning staff, he worked for Dumbarton Oaks, was a delegate to the San Francisco Conference, for the first United Nations General Assembly at San Francisco, and has been at each assembly, and now is in the key position of directing the entire United States Mission to the United Nations. And so, Tom, it is a great privilege to have you with us tonight to explain this great institution, the U.S. Mission, to our radio audience. I'm going to start out by saying it would help us if you would describe this mission in detail. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger. Physically, our four floors at 2 Park Avenue have quite attractive offices for our top delegates and advisers, and appropriate areas for central files, for our mimeograph machines, for our communications facilities, a press room, and of course the appropriate housekeeping services. We also have room for our military staff committee who serve as advisers to the mission. Organizationally, we're headed by Ambassador Warren R. Austin, who is empowered to sit not only in the Security Council, but in all other organs of the United Nations. His deputy, Mr. Ernest Gross, an ambassador, is also empowered to represent the United States in all the organs of the United Nations. Mr. John C. Ross sits as a deputy representative in the Security Council. In addition, we have representatives, of course, on the Economic and Social Council, trusteeship council, atomic energy, conventional armaments, and the functional commissions of the Economic and Social Council. These representatives are backstopped by advisers. We have eight who are on the permanent year-round staff, and by a secretary general who has a considerable staff in order to provide the backstopping facilities. There is also a press and public liaison section. The function of the secretary general's office is to keep in touch with all the developments and see that the representatives and their advisers have the materials they need to work with. That they have coordinated reports, that the documents are analyzed for their use, that they actually have the documents and the telegrams in their hand when they need them. And then, of course, that they are transported to Lake Success and that their offices are kept in good shape. We have a service organization, then, an organization which not only takes care of those who are permanently on the staff, but is available to take care of those who come for special questions from Washington for short periods of time. We have altogether about 175 people on our payroll. I think you'll agree with me, Mr. Eichelberger, that all these people have an unusual devotion to the United Nations and to assisting our representatives to represent us in the United Nations. I would certainly agree to that, Mr. Power, because as one who is privileged to work with you closely and see you in action at Lake Success, I know that is certainly true. In what way, Tom, does your mission differ from an embassy abroad in its function? Well, Clark, we have a more specialized task than the ordinary embassy has. It's specialized on the one hand, but it's a little broader on the other. We, of course, are entirely concerned with the United Nations matters, preparing to represent us in UN bodies and analyzing United Nations documents. For that, of course, we have a great deal of intelligence that comes in from all over the world as background to assist us in formulating these positions. Besides this very great range of subject matter from the Security Council through economic and social fields and dependent area fields, we're different in another respect in that we have what you might call a multilateral approach. The ordinary embassy is accredited to a single government, whereas we have here in New York approximately 50 delegations. Not all here all the time, but throughout the year most of them are here. And we have to keep relations with those delegations to consult with them, to discuss matters with them, and, of course, to discuss matters with the secretariat. And I think few people realize how much that informal contact with the delegations of other countries result in solving some very difficult problems in a most intimate and informal way. I'm going to get back to the technical side of it again, if I might, Tom. I frequently heard people visiting the mission comment on the lack of formality and the speed and the business-like method with which everything works. Tell us a little bit more of the technical details. How many hours a day is the office open? What are your means of communication with Washington, telephone, telegraph, or what? Well, Clark, we have a round-the-clock operation. It's a very fast one. We have an enormous volume, and, of course, we must be accurate and precise in what we do. Now, we're actually open for business, an ordinary type of business, fifteen and a half hours a day. That means there's somebody in the office who can deal with anything that comes up. But our telegraph room is open twenty-four hours around the clock. We go seven days a week. We're closed only on Christmas and New Year's Day. Our document service during the assembly works right around the clock. To give you a little idea of schedule, our courier never leaves until after midnight because the work is never... We can never be sure the work is all done before he has to go. We very often have meetings running on until one or two o'clock in the morning, and the advisers have to get their material prepared for the next day during those meetings. To give you a little idea of the volume, for instance, during the past few weeks, we've been sending eighty-five thousand words every week to Washington and receiving even more from that in telegraphic communication. We have something over eight hundred calls a week between Washington and New York, mostly with the State Department, but also with other agencies. We handle something over nine hundred different documents each week, and they run anywhere from seventy-five to ninety-thousand copies. Of those documents, during the last few weeks, an average of nearly two hundred and fifty originated in our own office, and they ran into copies in something on the order of ninety-thousand. And that gives us a picture, a very good picture. How does the size of the American mission compare with that of some other country, say, the United Kingdom, France, and particularly the Soviet Union? Well, Clark, we're perhaps a little larger than others because of our unusual responsibilities and because of the fact that we are located in the United States. However, the United Kingdom, I believe, has something on the order of a hundred and fifteen people on its staff here in New York. The Soviet Union has something over sixty people, and the French delegation comprises more than fifty. I'm going to ask a question that I think anybody would ask you if you were facing an audience tonight. Immunity, diplomatic immunity. Suppose you were caught speeding out to Lake Success because you had to get there in a half hour for a meeting, and you only had twenty minutes to get there. Could the police give you a ticket? The police could give me a ticket, Clark, and I could go to court and I could pay for it just as I would if I weren't in this job. I see. What is the difference in status between members of the United States mission as such and members of the United States delegation to the General Assembly? Well, the assembly delegation, Clark, doesn't come under the United States mission. The ten representatives are appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate. They included at the last session, of course, Secretary Atchison, and in his absence, Ambassador Austin, Ambassador Jessup, Mrs. Roosevelt, ex-Senator Cooper, and Mr. Ben Cohen. In addition to those ten, we have, of course, the advisers from our permanent staff and additional advisers who come for specialized topics from Washington. We've got about ninety different people during the course of the assembly, and at any one time we probably would have about fifty professional officers from Washington just to work on assembly matters. You spoke of Mrs. Roosevelt. She attracts tremendous attention at the United Nations. Just exactly, what does Mrs. Roosevelt do? Well, she has been, of course, a delegate to each regular assembly, starting with our first assembly in London in 1946. Then, in addition, she's also the United States representative on the Human Rights Commission, to which she was elected chairman. So that means that she has usually spent with us four or five months on assembly work, and perhaps six weeks on the Human Rights Commission. Mm-hmm. Well, Tom, you've given us a very clear picture of the American mission, Ambassador Austin, the deputies, and the vast technical work. I'm going to ask a question that always interests me very much. How do you function in relationship to Washington? Uh, how does this vast interest of Washington express itself in instructions through the State Department, your mission in New York? Well, of course, Clark, these questions are studied right throughout the year, both here in New York and in Washington, so that the officers in the department always have them under review and always are ready to come forward with recommendations to the Secretary of State as they are needed. We have, of course, a common fund of information here and in Washington regarding the United Nations activities and the documents and the views of other delegations and material that comes in from the field abroad. Now, we get together and work that out through a series of conferences, some here in New York and sometimes we go to Washington. Uh, we work together closely with all the, uh, specialists down there who then formulate instructions that are approved by the Secretary and, in unusual cases, of important questions by the President. Those instructions then come to New York and they are binding on the United States representative on the particular organ. Well, Tom, what would happen if, uh, members of the American Mission didn't agree with the instructions from the State Department? Well, Clark, we can, uh, Ambassador Austin can always go back to the Secretary and ask that in the light of our consultation with other delegations and in the light of our judgment of the situation here, that, uh, he reconsidered the matter and we may suggest an alternative course of action. If the Secretary agrees with that, then the change in the instruction may be made. I'm going to conclude by asking a question I think my audience is, uh, used to my asking of every distinguished guest. How much about public opinion? How do you feel the impact of public opinion in the Mission? Uh, what is your relation with it? Do you get much of an expression? Well, we follow it very carefully and we do great, get a great deal of expression. We have, of course, a great many letters. Uh, a couple weeks ago we received 5,000 letters in, uh, one week. At one time we've had over 20,000 letters. We have background conferences with leaders of public opinion, uh, both people in New York and those who come to us. We keep in close touch with students. We follow the summaries of the press prepared by the department and the summaries of public information, uh, public opinion, magazine articles, uh, speeches. And we very, we try to keep our, uh, finger on the pulse of, uh, public opinion and to be, in a very large degree, guided by that. And that is, of course, a process which is also carried out in the State Department. Tom, Mr. Power, I want to thank you for appearing on the program. And I am sure that the radio audience must be very proud indeed and feel very confident of the people that make up the American mission to the United Nations, fighting for American security and the ideals of the United Nations. Thank you, Clark M. Eichelberger and Thomas F. Power, Jr. This has been another in NBC's new University of the Air program series, The UN Is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger will discuss important developments in the United Nations affairs. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN Is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN Is My Beat, the national broadcasting company, Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.