The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Is mercy killing justifiable? Northwestern University, in cooperation with a mutual broadcasting system, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses mercy killing. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the moral and legal status of taking the life of another as an act of mercy. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. The Sander case in New Hampshire has aroused nationwide interest in euthanasia or mercy killing. To discuss this important subject, we present a doctor, a clergyman, and a lawyer. Dr. Richard H. Young, Dean of the Medical School at Northwestern University, Rabbi Louis Binstock of the Temple Sholem in Chicago, and Fred E. Imbo, Professor of Law in the School of Law at Northwestern University. Now, what is your position, doctor, on mercy killing? Physicians, as all human beings, revolt at the idea of unnecessary suffering, and physicians, by the very nature of their work, rarely escape the problem or temptation of mercy killing or euthanasia. A physician's avowed duty is to promote health and prolong life, and not to be a judge of life and death. If a physician believes he should have the power over life and death, I believe he is suffering from a delusion of omnipotence. I believe the majority of physicians, consciously or subconsciously, resent the persistent efforts to make them responsible over life and death. Where do you stand on this question, Rabbi? I'm opposed to mercy killing, because the killing is very definite, while the mercy is quite doubtful. Psychiatry, as well as theology, teaches that when one is experiencing great pain, and the pain may be mental and emotional and spiritual, as well as physical, he is, as a rule, unable to make a rational, balanced, voluntary choice. Experience, as well as science, teaches that alleviation or even salvation through a sudden discovery may come overnight. The human spirit is endowed with the capacity to endure suffering and sorrow, to rise above them to great heights of heroism and nobility. We must not yield to momentary moods of despondency, and thus destroy man's kinship to divinity. Man must not seek to play the role of God on the stage of this world. Where do you stand on this question, Imbal? I can merely state, by and large, the standing of the profession generally. No intentional killing by a private citizen is legally justifiable, except when committed in defense of himself or others from serious bodily harm. Mercy killings, therefore, in point of law, are clearly unjustifiable. Unjustifiable. Now, that's the law now, and unless the state legislature specifically authorize mercy killings, anyone who commits such an act is technically guilty of murder. Well, now, I wonder if we're agreed on the meaning of this term, mercy killing. I take it that mercy killing and euthanasia are essentially synonymous terms, but what form does this mercy killing take, Dr. Young? Those who favor euthanasia may be divided, as to their philosophy, into three groups. The first, and perhaps the largest group, favors voluntary euthanasia to be administered only upon the request of the sufferer for whom no cure is known to medical science. Legislation enacting the legalization of voluntary euthanasia for these incurable sufferers is being advocated by this group. The second group would apply euthanasia only to those in early life, such as monstrosities and mental defectives, who are doomed to live useless lives until death removes them. The third group comprises extremists, who would apply euthanasia not only to the congenitally defective and to those of advanced age who are suffering from incurable disease, but would include the incurably insane, the paralytic, and the helplessly crippled, all, in fact, who are a burden to themselves and to the community. Now, do you suggest the possibility that approval of what you call voluntary euthanasia is likely to lead to involuntary cases and then to the elimination of the so-called undesirables? Well, it seems to me that it would because there would be created the temptation to extend mercy killing into other areas of life. And in addition to that, there would be the temptation also to follow the passions of greed and lust and therefore to be aroused by cupidity and a desire to follow one's own particular desires. And therefore, we would have mercy killing extended much further than the original intent. If we begin any train of excesses here, it would certainly lead, it seems to me, to something that we had in Nazi Germany in recent years. Well, what happened in Nazi Germany that suggests an analogy with this mercy killing we're discussing young? Back in about 1931, sterilization and euthanasia of persons with chronic mental illness was legalized. And it, by 1936, became a very common practice. And there were such things as motion pictures. One title that I recall was I Accuse. Even in the mathematics text, there were illustrations of the economic cost of the care of the chronically ill. That is, the public at large was being prepared for euthanasia. It was interesting to me that Dr. Young mentioned that the first laws passed in Germany were in 1931, before the Nazis came into power. Therefore, it might seem that those very laws, before the Nazis came into power, set the stage for their further extension of the laws. Of course, on the other hand, we had laws passed in this country going back about that time, a little bit earlier, if I recall, on sterilization. And we didn't really start out on a chain of excesses. It may well be that there are other complicating factors that must be present also. And that the mere law of this type that we're talking about now wouldn't in and of itself bring this change about. I think, however, it may be a dangerous step to take. Have we ever attempted legislation in this area of mercy killing in this country, Imbow? There have been, well, there was at least one attempt. May have been a few more, but only one that I'm familiar with. And that was unsuccessful. And it seems to me that it would be extremely difficult to get any sort of legislation like that passed, even if it were agreed by a substantial majority that we should have it. How are the persons accused of mercy killing fared in the court, Imbow? They're fared out exceedingly well, by and large, particularly in cases where the killing was not to remove an imbecile son or someone of that sort, but a killing motivated solely for the interest of the, out of the interest of the victim, the patient himself. In other words, a person suffering from cancer. The reason why the persons accused of such crimes have fared out so well is the fact that with our jury system being what it is, you have jurors sitting in judgment in a matter of this sort who are instructed as to what the law is and may, as a general proposition, be opposed to mercy killings. But here they're faced with an individual defendant, a person accused of a mercy killing, and they can hardly avoid feelings of sympathy and compassion, so they'll blink at the actual facts and return a verdict of acquittal. Well, it's interesting that perhaps you are indirectly advocating something similar to the position of religion in society. The religion seeks to attain its ends by creating certain moral and ethical approaches to life instead of stressing the legal aspect and creating, therefore, a climate of approach and opinion that would save life instead of destroy it. Well, now, do I understand you to say, Rabbi, that you approve this kind of leniency on the part of the courts which Imbo describes? I certainly do, because, to my mind, it's inconceivable that except in unusual cases that anyone would be motivated except by a desire to extend mercy, especially a physician. And therefore, the law ought, especially when there is no legal enactment, extend mercy to the one who is seeking to extend mercy to someone else. Do the rest of you men go along with that position? How about it, Imbo? Well, that's the position that I take, certainly. You get from the situation as we now have it many of the advantages that would accrue from a statutory enactment, but you don't have the disadvantages attending it. In other words, you don't have an invitation to kill. We do have some control, the jury system, the juror, or sitting in judgment on any individual case. If the one who did the killing did it of the highest motives, even though it's illegal, there is a tendency on the part of the layman to extend mercy, even though the judge may tell them what the law clearly is. And then, we have one further control, the pardoning power of the governor in any given situation. You think there isn't danger of letting your sympathy go too far in this matter, Rabbi? Well, personally, I don't think that it's possible for sympathy to go too far when it is tempered by justice. We do have, at present, this particular kind of killing declared illegal. What I have in mind, Dean McBurney, is this. Texas is the only state which, by statute, specifically authorizes a husband to shoot his wife's paramour when he finds the two of them in a situation of intimacy. Now, in the other states, we do not have any such law. And yet, at the same time, you do not find in the other states many instances of husbands who killed under those circumstances going to the penitentiary or being executed. Now, in Texas, you probably do have more shootings in situations of that sort by virtue of the invitation. But, here in this country, the jurors are reluctant. In a case where they feel that the husband did it in a state of excitement, shot the paramour, they are willing to give him a pass, so to speak. Now, we don't have, in the other 47 states, an invitation to kill will condone it, will excuse it, in particularly understandable cases. And you think that the legalization of euthanasia would provide an invitation to kill? It could. It probably would. What do you think of that analogy with the Texas law? Well, I think it's a very good analogy, and the very fact that Mr. Imbo has indicated that in Texas, it has been a sort of an invitation to more killings would indicate that if you had it legalized, that is mercy killing, it might be an invitation in this country. Could it be that they're a bit more handy with guns in Texas, Rabbi? Well, I've heard so, because I happen to come from the South myself. Well, now, let's examine some of these objections you men are raising to mercy killing. I take it that your basic fear is that this thing will lead to excesses and abuses. How would you spell that out, Doctor? Well, I do not believe that they can set up, legally, strict safeguards. And I think that it's impossible for any physician to say that anybody is absolutely incurable. We have a saying in medicine, there is never a never and never an always. Now, there are certain diseases in the past century that have been classified as incurable, which are now definitely curable. A good example is that of pernicious anemia. Before 1930, pernicious anemia was always led to death. Nowadays, a person can live perfectly comfortable. Another good example is that of diabetes. And of late, of course, the interest in ACTH and cortisone, some of the new advances, give some hope to the arthritic patient. But, Doctor Young, why couldn't we set up, if we decided we wanted it, a piece of legislation which would permit the killing only under the most extreme circumstances and under certain safeguards. In other words, let us say, after a surgical operation has revealed that cancer or some other disease has destroyed some vital organs and tissues, something that, I think, in all reasonable thinking, we're prepared to say it's incurable. Death is positive and certain. you're making the statement that death is positive and certain. I do not believe as a physician I would like to take that responsibility. If you don't take it, I don't know who else will. Well, it seems to me that, Doctor Young, if a law should be passed and one with proper safeguards, that we would be compelled to turn to the physician and expect him to do his duty as a soldier would be called upon to do his duty in a time of war. A soldier does not seek to kill of his own real free desire, but when his country demands that he is the best equipped to do it, he does it. And so it would be incumbent upon the physician to follow the orders of society. There's no question in my own mind that the physician would be the best equipped to be the judge. And if there were legalization, I am sure that doctors would assume that responsibility. They would have to. But do you think you can, Imbil, set up legislation legalizing mercy killing which would really safeguard these excesses? Well, it seems to me certainly the phrasing of any such legislation could be made quite adequate. And I personally have a feeling that if we wanted to do that, we could provide for mercy killings only in the most extreme situations and let's say after a board of half a dozen or more doctors has reached an agreement on the subject. But I can see Dr. Young's position that it's quite a responsibility to assume. I'd like to say, Mr. Inbo, that I've heard that a Philadelphia lawyer or any kind of lawyer almost can misinterpret or reinterpret a will. and it seems to me that there's always the danger of taking any law that is placed in human hands and perverting it to sinister purposes. Oh, I agree with you, Rabbi, and the position I stated before assumes that possibility. But I'm really suggesting if we wanted it, we could make it apply to the most extreme cases and perhaps by that means run the least risk. There would be some risk, as the Rabbi suggests, of political distortions and extensions that weren't contemplated by the law, you think. Oh, I certainly agree on that. Certainly this analogy... Nazi Germany is a perfect example. An analogy with Nazi Germany suggests that possibility. Of course, at the present time, doctors are permitted a certain amount of responsibility as far as life and death is concerned. At the present time, as you well know, a doctor is allowed to produce an abortion if a colleague agrees that the mother's health and the sanity of the mother is imperiled by not doing an abortion. Also, a doctor is frequently called in in the case of a condemned criminal to decide whether he is sane enough to be hanged or to be electrocuted. Of course, your first point there is a good one, I think, of the abortion situation, and I believe there it must be posted in the hospital bulletin board too or something, doesn't it, doctor? That's correct. But on the second, the ultimate responsibility as to whether a man's convicted criminal shall be hanged or not is that of the court or jury even after he's sentenced to death in this state anyway. He has the right to have a determination made by a jury as to whether he's sane. Now, you men seem to be opposed to mercy killing because of your fear that it will lead to abuses of the sort that you have spelled out here. A good many people, Rabbi, object on moral grounds. Do you take that position? Well, I would say there is a moral ground upon which one could object to mercy killing and that is the one that I've already indicated that if we allow a law to be passed permitting mercy killing under certain conditions, I've already indicated the perversion of that law and also the temptation to human beings who are activated or motivated by greed or lust to use that law in order to further their own ends and to achieve their purposes. I would like to ask you a question, Rabbi. It seems to me there's an inconsistency in the position taken by theologians who are opposed to mercy killings but who do not voice disapproval against capital punishment. That seems to me an inconsistent position. Well, may I say that I do not see any inconsistency. It so happens that I personally happen to be a theologian opposed to capital punishment but nevertheless there is to my mind a very clear distinction that in the case of capital punishment you have the ultimate purpose of creating a preventive to further killing on the part of other people that is murders or any other crime committed by the individual condemned and therefore you are trying to protect society whereas in mercy killing you are protecting an individual within the intimate group of a family and perhaps trying to save some members of the family from pain and in the one case the one first case society has a stake in it. In the second case it's a more personal thing. Well, I can see those practical differences but on the basis of theological considerations if you take the position that man cannot take the life of man that's something for divine intervention it seems to me you would have to be consistent take the position you personally take and oppose both. Well, Mr. Dimbleau I would say that if you follow theology as indicated in the Old and the New Testaments you must of course say that the law thou shalt not kill has no exceptions but we do know from a practical standpoint that there have been created exceptions by society such as not only in capital punishment but in war the church does not condone either but has from time to time accepted them as inevitable necessities in the dealings of men with each other and nations. Isn't there another way of stating this moral issue? It would seem to me that it would the legalization of euthanasia might very well destroy respect for human life with some of the dangers which you men have seen. Do you think that is the moral issue? Is that a way of stating it? Well, I would say definitely it would tend to depreciate the value of human life in society but there's one other angle I may mention I don't think has been brought out which troubles me and that is that if it's voluntary in other words if a human being who suffers great pain wants to be put to death or the family desires it he may be in a mood of despondency at that moment but the next moment may want to change his mind and if you kill him he has no opportunity to change his mind. Which suggests what to me is probably the most important question we've got to look at here today. It's easy to bring these objections to euthanasia to mercy killing but what do you propose to do about these cases which seem to urgently to demand mercy? Consider the case where death appears certain I know Dr. Young objects to use the word certain but appears certain the man is suffering horribly. Consider the infant who comes into the world hopelessly deformed and doomed to imbecility or idiocy. Now that puts the question up to you what are you going to do in those cases doctor? There are of course many examples of individuals who are born badly deformed who have later served an extremely useful life. I recall one instance where an obstetrician noted during the delivery of a child that the child was deformed in one leg. He had the opportunity of delaying the delivery of that child and thereby perhaps saving that person's future suffering. However he did not take that opportunity delivered the child and some years later that same child became a very well known musician and led an extremely useful life. I would say that is true in that particular case and also in the case with which we are especially concerned now that is of mercy killing of older people who have already covered a certain span of years. There are two things that can be done and ought to be done. We ought to extend the use of alleviation of pain even further than we have in the past and secondly I think we can train specially equipped nurses who can give the right kind of psychiatric treatment to those who are suffering great pain and also the members of the family which is sometimes even more important. Do you think much can be done along those lines doctor? the rabbi has spoken of the alleviation of pain and equipping nurses to handle these special cases. Are you at all sanguine about improvements along that line? I definitely feel that that should be the hope and that should be our desire to carry on as physicians. I know of two cases right now of physicians well-known men in this city who are in the circumstances that you described have lived a very useful life are now a terrific burden on their family and the one doctor has a son that is a physician and I know his attitude is that he should prolong the life of his father and should do nothing to make a mercy killing. Now we earlier in the discussion admitted the possibility of mercy killing under certain circumstances I think Imbal made the point and conceded the possibility indeed the probability that the courts in their turn would be merciful. Well now that places it seems to me a dreadful responsibility on the doctor or whatever person is going to perform this act of mercy. How do you feel about that Imbal? Well I can certainly have a merciful feeling for the doctor who was put in that position but it seems to me of all individuals or groups that is most competent to perform such an unpleasant task the doctor is the man for the job. Of course our doctor Sander in New Hampshire finds himself in precisely that spot now and I take it that it's not a very comfortable spot. No presumably his medical career is wrecked. I would hazard a guess in that case and any case of that sort that he would receive merciful treatment on the part of the jury that may be called upon to try him. The average juror will have some feeling of sympathy for him even though that juror if asked how he felt about mercy killings would be strenuously opposed to it as a general principle as a general proposition and even if the jury in that case should convict it may well be that a governmental pardon would be granted or commutation of sentence. That has been done in another eastern case of a killing of an imbecilic son where the jury found the doctor guilty but he was sentenced commuted. How do you feel about that, Rabbi? Well, I think that there definitely ought to be the pardon extended to such cases and I believe that Dr. Sander instead of being severely punished ought to some extent be permitted to resume his practice and with the understanding of course that we do not condone his act. Now, we're not attempting to adjudicate the Sander case at this distance obviously but the case does raise the very important point. Are we going to ask the doctor to assume that kind of responsibility on the assumption that he will find mercy in the courts and that's been a position which you men have taken here today. Now, the risk is minimized when we deal with the matter on that basis. No other doctor could rest assured that he will receive the same treatment that may be accorded Dr. Sander or any other doctor at the present time. So that he would be dissuaded, certainly wouldn't be encouraged to go ahead and perform mercy killings. He wouldn't know what would happen to him. Now, how would you sum up your position on this question then, Embo? my feeling is, well, I can see some very good points on both sides, that we're probably better off going along as we have been up to now. Let it remain illegal, leave it up to jury considerations, pardoning power, and so on. How would you state your position, Dr. Young? I believe we should rely on the high moral ethics of the medical profession, namely, promotion of health and prolongation of life. In regard to any individual situation, and that mercy killing should not be legalized. A sentence or two from you, Rabbi. I would sum it as follows. Have no law of permission, it may lead to perversion. Use your mercy in seeking a cure for the patient instead of killing him. Extend the use of painkilling rather than the practice of mercy killing. Train special nurses who will understand the particular art of ministering to the helplessly crippled and the hopelessly diseased and also their families, which is sometimes the most important need. Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Is Mercy Killing Justifiable? Each week, the reviewing stand examines one of the important social or economic problems that confronts the contemporary world. Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Rabbi Louis Binstock of the Temple Sholem in Chicago, Fred E. Inbaugh, Professor of Law at the School of Law at Northwestern University, and Dr. Richard H. Young, Dean of the Medical School of Northwestern University. And now our moderator, Mr. McBurney, will tell you of next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand deals was one of medicine's most puzzling problems. Can we stop the common cold? Our guests will be Dr. John M. Brewster, captain in the United States Medical Corps, and one of the men responsible for the development of antihistamine drugs. Dr. Noah Fabricant, professor of otolaryngology at the University of Illinois College of Medicine. Dr. Samuel Feinberg, chief of the Division of Allergy at the Medical School at Northwestern University, and Dr. Samuel Rhodes, chairman of the Department of Medicine at Wesley Memorial Hospital in Chicago. We invite you to listen next week. Can we stop the common cold? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Bill O'Connor speaking. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you.