From the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor, we bring you now by transcription the second book and author luncheon of the current season. The luncheon, which took place this afternoon, was sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune and the American Booksellers Association. Our speakers today are New York City Park Commissioner Robert Moses, Bennett Cerf, publisher, lecturer, and humorist, and Elizabeth Gray Vining, who was the tutor to the Young Crown Prince of Japan. Here now to open the program is our mistress of ceremonies, Rita Van Doren, literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune. Miss Van Doren. It was at the personal request of the Emperor of Japan that in 1946, an American woman was sought to help educate the Crown Prince. Elizabeth Gray Vining, a Quaker, a writer of children's books, was chosen. There could be no better description of what she tried to do for the next four years than Viscount Matsudara's imaginated words, to open windows on a wider world for the Crown Prince. When the time came for her return to the United States and she felt that her job was done, the Emperor and Empress gave every evidence of satisfaction and gratitude for what she had accomplished, and General MacArthur expressed his approval. But her real reward was in seeing a lonely, shy boy, hemmed in by rigid custom and convention, change into a modest but poised young man with a growing independence of thought and action, who gave promise of being able to assume successfully the responsibilities that will one day be his. Her count of these four years makes utterly fascinating reading. She taught the Crown Prince not only English, but Western etiquette, history, and thought. She also taught the Empress and the Princesses and the Crown Prince's class at school. In the course of all this, she was taken into the Imperial household as no other foreigner has ever been. She found that the Imperial family dined together once a week, but by custom were not permitted to live together. The children had separate houses, the Crown Prince even living outside the Imperial moat, which surrounded the palace properties, always accompanied by a doctor, police officers, and several chamberlains, who in effect managed his life. She describes for us many of the customs, the exotic rites, the beauties of that ceremonious world within the moat. Duck netting, silkworm culture, the Japanese theater, a royal marriage, flower arrangements, New Year celebrations, and the Emperor's Poetry Party, a unique and impressive ceremony to which few Westerners have ever been invited. Poetry is a part of the life of people in Japan for the expression of pleasure or pain of gay trivial matters or of serious important ones. Mrs. Vining reminds us that the Emperor, when approached by his ministers not to determine but to approve a declaration of war against the United States, expressed his disapproval by reciting twice the lines of a famous poet and walking out of the room. Her book, Absorbing from Beginning to End, reflects to an extraordinary degree the qualities that made her work so successful. A quietness and depth of spirit, warm sympathies and imaginative resourcefulness, dignity, restraint, consideration for others, and love of peace. readers of windows for the crown prince, owe her thanks for a revealing and delightful experience. And all of us may well owe her a deeper gratitude for the liberalizing influence she brought to the education of the boy who is destined to be Emperor of Japan. I'm happy to introduce to you Elizabeth Gray Vining. Thank you. Mrs. Van Doren, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. My appointment as tutor to the crown prince has brought me various fearful joys of which I may say this is not one of the least. As Mrs. Van Doren said, the idea of having an American tutor for the crown prince of Japan was the emperor's own idea. So many people have assumed that the American tutor was imposed by the occupation that I think it is worthwhile to emphasize the fact that nothing could be farther from the case. When, in fact, the occupation itself was a little bit dubious about the idea in the beginning. When an American education mission headed by Dr. George Stoddard visited Japan in the spring of 1946 to make recommendations for the liberalization of Japanese education, the emperor gave a party for them. And in the course of that reception, he asked Dr. Stoddard to find him an American woman to tutor his son. Not only an American, you see, but a woman. I have been told that the emperor's reasons for this were two. In first place, he felt that the crown prince needed more feminine influence in his life. From time immemorial, it has been the Japanese custom to take the imperial princes away from their parents at the age of three and set them up in households of their own, surrounded and ruled by their chamberlains. In the second place, so I was told, the emperor felt that with the United States standing in so new and dynamic a relation to Japan, that the crown prince ought to have an opportunity to know an American of a high type. And he said, a Christian, but not a fanatic. I did not apply for the post. The American Friends Service Committee, for whom I was working at that time, recommended me. Dr. Stoddard sent my name and one other to the imperial household, and the choice which was made in Japan fell upon me. The crown prince, when I first saw him in the autumn of 1946, was still very much of a child. He was 11 going on 12, very brown-faced and chubby and lovable. He was very direct, very honest, intelligent, friendly. I'm thankful to say he had a sense of humor. He had a strong sense of responsibility and a manful desire to fulfill all his obligations. He was no more anxious than any other adolescent to go the second mile, but he would cheerfully do whatever was asked of him up to the exact limit. I felt that he had great potentialities of mind and spirit, but I felt that his education and training, surrounded as he had been by grown-up, serious, grown-up men in striped trousers who went with him everywhere and prompted him at every turn, had tended to sap his initiative, and I longed to set him free, to give him a chance to develop enthusiasms of his own, to make his own mistakes and to learn from them, and to have the fun that is the right of any child, no matter how highly placed. I had been asked to teach the Crown Prince English, but after I was there for a short time, the Minister of the Imperial Household said to me, we want you to open windows onto a wider world for our Crown Prince, and this I took to mean that through the medium of English, I could tell him about the world outside Japan, and I could explain to him the real meaning of that democracy which the Japanese people in their revulsion against totalitarian militarism were embracing with a hasty and bewildered sort of zeal. I never tried to indoctrinate him with any specific dogma, but I did try to expose him to the best that I knew, and I think it is significant that in all the four years that I was there, I had complete freedom in my teaching. Nobody, neither Japanese nor Americans, ever tried to direct or to censor what I taught. we began with the simplest kind of things. Oh, first grade American readers and the like, because when I first got there, the Crown Prince knew only such things as I'm sitting down, I'm standing up, I'm walking to the window, and I knew no Japanese, and all the teaching was done in English. But gradually, we progressed to biographies of famous men and women, to stories from history, stories of exploration, to discussions of the United Nations, of the Bill of Universal Human Rights, and the new Japanese Constitution, to such books as Carl Sandberg's Abe Lincoln Grows Up, Pilgrim's Progress, and Shakespeare's Julius Caesar. Part of the Crown Prince's homework, always, was to take some of the new words that he had learned and incorporate them in sentences of his own invention. I was always interested in his sentences, because they were seldom merely perfunctory. They almost always had some idea that was quite his own, and that would give me some inkling as to the way his mind was working. For instance, one of the words that he had to use was the word organization, and he came up with this sentence, democracy is the best organization of government. Now, democracy was not the word he had to use, it was organization. Some years, or a couple of years later, he was getting a little bit older by this time, the word he had to use was form, and as we had been discussing the United Nations, I rather thought of political forms. But the Crown Prince's sentence was, she bothered about her form. because her form was not good to look at. Another word was appreciate, and he said, it is unwary to appreciate a person when you first meet him. That is very characteristic of the boy. he is cautious and deliberate. He is no facile enthusiast, warm one moment and cool the next. He makes up his mind carefully and slowly, but when he has once given his faith, he is constant. And this, I submit, is a good characteristic in a boy who will be the future emperor of Japan. And another sentence that he made was this, using the word conscience. And this sentence I actually saw him make. And he looked up one word, I don't know what, in the dictionary, I don't know what the word was. He said, the man whose conscience is paralyzed is dangerous. I did not teach the crown prince alone. I had other pupils, as Mrs. Van Doren has said. I taught his sisters, his younger brother, and also the empress. Soon after I got there, the empress of Japan decided that she too would like to learn English. and so for two days, two mornings a week, I went to the palace. And those hours with her majesty were some of the happiest hours that I had in Japan. She is a charming person. Very genuine, very warm-hearted, with a sense of fun, and a perfectly amazing spontaneity when you think how she has lived surrounded by high walls of rigid ceremony. Then too, I taught the crown prince's class in school, a hundred boys, or thereabouts, in three sections, and two classes in the school that his sisters attended. The boys at the time I first went there were in what corresponds to our seventh grade, the girls were a little bit older. The crown prince, this present crown prince, is the first crown prince of Japan to go all the way through school with the other boys. His father and his grandfather went through elementary school and then were taken out and taught by private tutors. Conditions in the schools, in the schools, those first years that I was there particularly, were rugged. Tokyo, as you know, was 70% destroyed. That meant that people were living in air raid shelters, in little wooden shacks, in barracks, or crowded in with relatives. Transportation was perfectly fearful. The streetcars and trains were windowless, they were unheated, they were dirty, and they were jam-packed to the windows and the doors. Sometimes people had their ribs broken in the crush. Food was very scarce. The daily ration at that time was 1,500 calories and frequently it was late. Inflation had raised prices so high that most people had to sell their treasures in order to get by, to buy food for their families. to keep alive, you see, they had to buy food in the black market. That was called the bamboo shoot existence because to get at the edible part of the bamboo shoot, you must peel off one after another the outward husks. The stage beyond that is called the onion skin existence because when you peel off the outer layers of the onion, it brings tears to the eyes. the schools too were cold. There wasn't a vestige of heat in them. The children came to school tired and cold and hungry. And even so, they put their minds on their work and they applied themselves to learning. I found them to be ardent, idealistic, cooperative, and great fun to teach. They were, the boys at that time were having what was, I suppose, a quite new experience for the Japanese male. They were having to help their mothers at home. They used to come and see me at Christmas, during the holidays and they would write me letters and they kept diaries in English for me to correct and hand back. And so I got an insight into their lives. The boys, I found generally, were pretty complacent about the work they did at home. One boy admitted, I am a very good housekeeper. But the girls were rather more realistic. One girl wrote, I baked the bread with the electric appliance, while I write the diary with rapt attention. so that the bread gets burned. And another girl wrote, I cooked the vegetable, but it was a miscarriage. They hated war, these young people. They had learned about war through bombing at night, through fire, through flight, through terror, through hunger, and homelessness. And yet, I found that they had no bitterness toward the enemy who had brought war home to them. On the second anniversary of the end of the surrender and the atom bomb, I got a whole flock of little essays and comments in their diaries and also in their letters. years. And the same spirit went through all of them. One girl wrote, two years ago on today, we could have joyful peace. World war had ended. We will never forget today in my lifetime. And another girl wrote, today is the second anniversary of the end of World War II. We are full of memories. My elder brother was killed in the war four years ago. He was such a nice brother that I miss him very much. It is two years ago we renounced war and started life as a peaceful nation. Many changes have been done in that time. Under the new constitution, militarism has been swept away and Japan is advancing toward democracy. humanity. And this came from a 15-year-old boy. Two years ago on August 6, 1945, first atomic bomb for Japan did explode above the Hiroshima city. And in that moment, large numbers of people died by atomic bombs. I could not believe this cruel incident at that time. But this incident was guide of from war to peace. Atomic bomb was key to the Second World War, but it was a devil which killed 200,000 people. I did hate to this atomic bomb at that time, but few days later Second World War had ended, and so I did thank to this atomic bomb. And I hoped very much all nations of world will not use atomic bomb to all human race again. These young people now are in college. They've graduated from school. Most of them are in college. Two of the crown prince's sisters, whom I taught, have married. And the crown prince himself attends Gokshuin University, the first crown prince in history ever to go through a university with commoners, and in addition, even with a few co-eds. A friend of his sent me a snapshot showing him surrounded by girls demanding his autograph. He came of age in a ceremony about two weeks ago. He wore an age-old costume, and the cap of manhood, a cap of boyhood, was replaced by the cap of manhood. And there was great rejoicing all over Tokyo. He's a young man now, poised, and friendly with ability to think for himself. He occupies the most extraordinary position with the young people of Japan, these young people. He is their darling, their ideal, and their leader. They have centered on him their hopes for the future. He is the great counter-attraction against communism. And the communists in Japan are making a great play for the minds of the university students. And so, there are two things that work against the communist propaganda, which is telling the university students that the communists alone have solved the economic problem, and that communists alone want peace. And the two things are the character, the personality, the aura of the crown prince, and also the friendship of the people of the United States, which means a great deal to the Japanese people today. Thank you. applause. applause I wish we could hear more and more of this. All I can say to you is that those of you who have not read Mrs. Vining's book really have a treat in front of you before you. Our next speaker today is Bennett Cerf. Bennett Cerf began his career as a humorist early on the Columbia Jester, but a degree and a Phi Beta Kappa key seemed to have sobered him down temporarily, and he became a really, he worked on the Herald Tribune in the financial department, I believe, but was shortly fired for some fatal error he made that threatened a suit for the Herald Tribune. Then he read as a clerk on the stock exchange. He was still under the influence of solid achievement when he bought the modern library and began his publishing history by giving the public those distinguished classics in good-looking format at moderate prices. Then came Random House, the firm of which he is now president. But somewhere along the line of what has been called his career, the humorous side of him reasserted itself and is now so inextricably intertwined with the sober side that his friends often wonder how he can possibly be the successful publisher he is. Eight years ago, with that surplus energy he seems always to have on hand, he produced a collection of anecdotes and stories, mostly humorous, which he called Try and Stop Me. At first he was modest about them, half expecting that someone might accept his challenge. But the book was such an enormous success that it went to his head, and no one could stop him, with the result that he has since published six collections of humorous anecdotes. Of course, each time he commits one, he swears it's the last. He'll never do another. But there's nothing in it. Here's one now, good for a laugh, with the subjects classified and this time alphabetically listed from odd bark to zither for the benefit of public speakers, club chairmen, members of the clergy, and bar. Do you remember that old question, what is the rarest book in America? And the answer, a volume of Robert Underwood Johnson's poems that has not been autographed. Mr. Cerf, with his naive and candid delight in the success of his books, is running Mr. Johnson a close second. But I must confess that his inscriptions are more excitingly personal than Mr. Johnson's ever were. For instance, he wrote in one friend's volume, when a first autographed copy had failed to arrive, with renewed love, additional kisses, and the same old undying admiration. Parenthesis, further autographed copies are available on request. Many of you have seen Mr. Cerf on the Sunday night television show, What's My Line? It's now on radio as well, on Wednesdays. That's a plug. As you know, it's the job of a panel of men and women to find out by leading questions, as few as possible, the nature of the occupation or main interest of a selected guest. It's just as well that the panel is not trying to identify Mr. Cerf's occupations and interests, for they increase year by year in number and variety. Publisher, double columnist, trade wins in the Saturday Review, and the surfboard, it's hard to forgive that pun, in this week. First nighter at shows, good and bad, previewer of movies, ditto, coast-to-coast speaker, in fact, he will speak at the drop of a hat, father, country gentleman, complete with two-hole golf course and swimming pool, bridge player, and party-goer. Who could ever guess even a small part of that? Those of you who were here when Fleur Coles spoke last spring may remember the delighted murmur that arose from a thousand female throats when I identified Mr. Cerf as her publisher. Well, today, you may not only look at him, you may hear him, and, joking aside, he's an awfully good, tells an awfully good story, and I'm genuinely glad to be able to introduce him to you. Bennett Cerf. Thank you, Mrs. Rendaran, Mrs. Reid, ladies and gentlemen. I'm glad to clear up here and now this injustice that was done to me many years ago when I was on the financial page of the Tribune. All I did at that time was to say your company was bankrupt when it wasn't. And they only threatened to sue for a million dollars. And I didn't think that was sufficient cause to make me lose my job, but it was. If there was somebody in the audience today who heard Mrs. Vining, or who indeed has read her book from the Rogers and Hammerstein office, I'm sure they must have seen in it the plot for a sequel to The King and I, because there's a singular parallel between her career in Japan and the adventures of Anna and the King of Siam, reading her book myself, of course, learning how she found out all about these intricate Japanese customs that so few Americans know, reminded me, as Mrs. Vendoren says, everything always reminds me of some story. This reminded me of a story of a simple peasant in Russia who drove a sleigh, who was suddenly hired by one of the most famous rabbis in all Russia to take him on a tour from city to city and town to town in Russia, where he would give his sermon night after night. And being a very famous rabbi, he was always greeted by the Jewish population of each village with great acclaim. The pretty girls would throw their arms around him and kiss him, roses would be strewn in his path, a great dinner would be given in his honor, and great fuss made over him before and after his speech. And one day, while the driver was taking the rabbi from one town to another, he complained a little bit about the fact that the rabbi always got the kisses and the pretty girls and the attention, and that he, the driver, was always shunted to one side, nobody paid any attention to him, whatever. The old rabbi said, you're quite right. He said, now we're going to a town where nobody has ever seen me before. You've heard me give this lecture over and over again, you must know it by this time. We'll change places for this next town, and you will be the rabbi and I will be the driver. So they did change places and they came into the next town, and sure enough, it was the driver who got the kisses and the roses and the acclaim and the dinner. He got up and made his speech, letter perfect, but the trouble started when the speech was over and the question period came. And the first question came from a pale Talmudic student who got up and propounded a very intricate question in Jewish philosophy. And the old rabbi in the back of the hall clapped his hand to his head and he said, oh my, how is this driver going to handle this? But the driver was equal to the emergency. He looked at this student in amazement and he said, do you mean to tell me that a student like you who's been studying Jewish law for the last six years can't answer a simple question like that? He said, why, even my poor old driver in the back of the hall can answer that question. And he then called upon the driver to answer the question. Well, filing into this crowded room with all the important people at the speaker's table today also reminded me of a story of Pearl Mester that some of you may have heard of one of her great dinners that she gave down in Washington in between visits to Luxembourg. She invited a great many important celebrities in Washington to the dinner and her guest of honor was to be the senior senator from Montana. But the very day of the dinner, the senior senator from Montana slipped at the top of a marble suitcase, a staircase, staircase, and slid down to the bottom of the staircase on his posterior, denting it in several places. And, of course, he couldn't come to the dinner. And the next morning, he called up Pearl Mester, all apologies, and said, I'm terribly sorry I couldn't come to the dinner. I know it was in my honor. And she said, that's all right, rather gruffly. I understand you had a good reason, but you certainly ruined my seating arrangement. And the senator said, ruined your seating arrangement. You ought to see mine. But once you get in, once you get into this room, what it does to a publisher's sore eyes or a writer's sore eyes to see so many people come to hear authors talk and come to look to see what publishers and writing people look like. Because publishers are usually very sour people, very easily moved to tears. You can always find three or four publishers weeping over current conditions into their champagne cocktails at the Waldorf any afternoon. They've been crying about conditions for the last 75 years at least. There's a new book just published by the University of Indiana Press called This Was Publishing, going back to the history of publishing from the Civil War on. And it turns out that the publishers were always worried that some new craze was going to destroy interest in good books. Back in the 70s, believe it or not, it was new trolley cars that they were worrying about. People were going on trolley car parties. Then came the bicycle craze, which was going to keep people away from books. This in turn was followed by movies, cheap automobiles, radio, and now the new menace, and probably the worst, television. Always these things were going to destroy book business. As a matter of fact, of course, quite the contrary has happened. Each year, despite the laments and plaints of the publishers, more and more good books have been sold. This year will probably be the record for all time, despite all these distractions. Very encouraging to know that nothing takes the place of a really good book. And if somebody has learned to like good books early enough in life, it takes a great deal more than television, radio, movies, automobiles, and everything else put together to make them keep away from good books. Well, I'll say that bravely enough, but also, as you may have noticed, I have kept one anchor to windward by getting onto a television program of my own. This television program has taken up surprisingly and rather exasperatingly a large part of my life lately. Whereas once I was able to go out into the marketplace and have people come up to me and say, what kind of a fellow is William Faulkner? Or what do you think of the plays of Eugene O'Neill that you publish? Today, all they want to hear is, what kind of a girl is Dorothy Kilgallen? Or tell me, Mr. Cerf, is that program really on the level? Well, for your information, for those of you who watch What's My Line, I would like to promise you, with everything I have to say, all sincerity, that the What's My Line program is spontaneous and on the level. None of us are good enough actors to simulate ignorance of facts that we already know. That is one of the most difficult tricks in the acting profession. If we really knew the answers to these questions, those of you who watch that program week after week would know very quickly that we were faking. We couldn't hide it from the public, which sees all and knows all on television. Occasionally, we get hints from the audience that comes to watch us. Don't forget that the theater is full every Sunday night with a lot of people who are watching the program. And if you happen to hit upon the right track, they don't realize it, but a murmur runs through that audience. It only takes 25 people to whisper to the people they're with, they're on the right track. And that murmur reaches us. And we've been playing this game now so long that we've gotten rather proficient at it. And we can hear that murmur very clearly, and then we know we're ready for the kill. And how Miss Kilgallen does move in for that kill, incidentally. We only have two or three signals on the program. You may observe once in a while that Mr. John Daly, the moderator, pulls his ear once in a while. That means we're getting into dangerous territory. And we are supposed to change our line of thought. We all pay close attention to that signal, except, of course, Mr. Hal Block, who is usually encouraged to fresh outbursts by him. There is one other signal, too, before I wind up, what's my line? Whenever Mr. Daly says, for the last contestant, we only have three or four minutes left, that doesn't mean really hurry. That means, for the love of my, don't guess it right away. Because we've got three or four minutes that we must round out the program with. There is nothing worse than dead time on radio or television. A ten-second blank seems like an hour to the people who are listening. This is a fact that was taken advantage of very shrewdly in 1944 by the late Franklin D. Roosevelt. He was going on radio for an hour on election eve from 10.30 to 11.30, and he discovered a few days before this time that Governor Dewey had gotten from 11.30 to 12 on the same network and would go on immediately after President Roosevelt signed off. So President Roosevelt, being the master politician of our era, very cagely concluded his speech two minutes early, leaving two minutes of absolutely dead time on the air. As a result, about half the people who had been listening concluded either that the program was finished for the evening or that their radios were broken and tuned out and never listened to Governor Dewey. Well, another good part to me of What's My Line is that it's a wonderful source of new stories for me because all these contestants who come in from all over the country and the mystery guests that we have every Sunday night usually stand around after the show and we often go out and have a cup of coffee together. And the result is I come home with three or four more stories to add to my collection, which eventually find their way into the surfboard column or trade winds and then into books like Good for a Laugh. For instance, we had on our program three or four weeks ago a young lady who taught expectant fathers how to behave when the babies came. She was quite a clever girl and I was delighted because I guessed her profession. It only proved, again, what a tough job we have on that What's My Line panel. When we guess people, everybody says the program is fixed. When we don't guess them, they say, well, what kind of experts are you? Why don't you get somebody who knows how to do this? But when we went out with this girl after dinner, she told me a story that applies to British health stations that I think you may enjoy. At least I made a note of it immediately from my collection. It seems that with this public socialized medicine, things have gotten to such a state in Great Britain that the most serious matters medically are treated in a rather casual way. For instance, there was this perfectly lovely young married lady in London who suddenly suspected, for good reason, that she was about to produce an heir. And she went to the public health station to have this fact verified. To her amazement, the doctor merely glanced at her and said, yes, my dear, it's quite true, you're going to have a baby. And he went over to the window and took a rubber stamp, stamped it on a rubber pad, and stamped the lady's abdomen and sent her home. She explained this strange affair to her husband when he came home, and he said, well, that's a rather puzzling way to act. What does it say? And she said, well, I can't read it. It's upside down for me. So the husband tried to read it, but the type was too small. So he got a magnifying glass, and he put the magnifying glass on it, and all that the rubber stamp said was, when you can read this without a magnifying glass, take your wife to the hospital. Well, you don't need a magnifying glass this fall, I'm happy to say, to find books on the current lists that will make you laugh. And never has there been a time in our history when I think laughter is more necessary for all of us to relieve the tensions. You can find, for instance, in this fall, books like Charlotte's Web, the New E.B. White book, simply wonderful book, and a little book published by Holt, Mr. Buckley down the line, called Dennis the Menace, that made me scream with laughter, and another book by Corey Ford called Every Dog Should Have a Man, a very funny book. And last but not least, of course, my own collection, Good for a Laugh, which I honestly think is the best collection I've had since Try and Stop Me. I hope you'll look over some of these books in the months to come, when the holiday rush starts. Now, I just want to say one word before I stop, and the last speaker is probably going to kill me for what I'm going to say. We're going to need a new mayor in New York very soon, and who are we going to get for it? Well, when Mr. Robert Moses gets up to talk, no matter what disclaimers he may make, just look him over with that thought in mind. Thank you very much. You see, he's given up saying there's not going to be another. And I think you may feel you've had a preview of the next, but in all likelihood, there'll be a great deal more in it than what you've heard today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Most of you have driven along Henry Hudson Parkway in the spring, feasting your eyes on the beauty of the dogwood, or in the fall, thrilled with the glory of its color. Many of you have spent a day at Jones Beach, marveling at its cleanliness and order. Some of you have driven along the East Side Highway and watched sympathetically the hundreds of children running, swinging, sliding in its new playgrounds. All of you have heard of Bob Moses. These are only a small sample of the things he has done to make life happier and better for the citizens of New York. You may have heard that he is stubborn, contradictory, insistent on having things done his own way. But you've also heard that he gets things done, and you have never heard of any scandal or any charge of inefficiency in any of the work done under him. Robert Moses has never held an elective office. Perhaps his forthcoming merit may be the time. But he holds, I believe, nine appointive offices and draws one salary, that of Park Commissioner. He believes in planning on the grand scale and with the total result always in mind, has gained possession, by hook or by crook, of this section, that beach, this property, that woodland, until his parkways unroll like ribbons for miles in all directions. And moderate-priced, shining new apartments cover acres that were slums and fire traps. While working for the large plan, he does not forget the small, human, imaginative detail. He has had steps placed in some of the parks changed to ramps so that mothers could more easily get their baby carriages up and down. The need for this improvement, incidentally, occurred to him when he once tried to get his own grandson's baby carriage up and down in Park. He had a grilled rail built along the sunken New York Central tracks on Riverside Drive so that small boys could watch the trains go by. He found sponsors for the Waltham Memorial Skating Rink in Central Park and for shelters for checker players. When the old merry-go-round in the park burned down, he promptly provided a gay new one for children and grandparents. The big things he has accomplished have not been easy. Many of them have involved hard-fought battles, which I suspect he has always rather enjoyed. There was, for instance, his running fight with Lewis Mumford on housing, his ten-year battle over the aquarium and battery park. Generally, he has won his battles, but there have been some failures, such as the battery to Brooklyn Tunnel that, according to his plan, was to have been a bridge. And, alas, his inability, because of inexplicable civic protests, to get rid of some of the eyesore statuary in our parks. But very little has happened in greater New York in the last 20 or 30 years in which Mr. Moses has not played an important part and never, with any personal ambition, except the satisfaction of bettering things for the city and for the people who live in it. I'm delighted to introduce to you today an institution, our institution, a realist and an idealist, a battling crusader, Robert Moses. Mrs. Vendoran, my fellow speakers, I'm not an author. I'm merely a victim. This book that Mrs. Vendoran has referred to represents a curious combination of the enthusiasm and loyalty of a misguided friend meeting up with a publisher who wants to take the ultimate chance. I remember in this context a story that Haywood Brune used to tell Bob Tripp he made to Havana and there was a district down there which was known as the Via Magdalena. Lovely term. Anyway, Haywood was down there and he wanted to take in one of the rather dubious shows that went on in that area and he says that a large buxom girl came out in something that he described as a white nightgown and kept jumping up in front of him and saying big fat American Papa see exhibition she kept repeating this says he drew himself up to his full height and he said madam I'm an actor not a critic and that is my place in the civic life if I have any. I remember along the lines of one of Bennett's stories about the cab driver and the preacher an incident that occurred up in the legislative halls at Albany we had one of those terribly complicated bills that are drafted by meticulous lawyers and we added to the ordinary lawyers some bond attorneys and they're about the furthest south when it comes to that kind of thing anyway this was the bill that set up the tribal bridge authority and there were pages in it which I never understood in fact I don't believe I ever read them though I was chairman of the authority that told what happened in the event of a default and that section had some of those sections had to be amended for reasons that I didn't understand but anyway we had an introducer who was one of the less gifted assemblymen from Brooklyn and he had been our introducer from the beginning and we always got by with very little trouble anyway he took these amendments and he introduced them and as a joke some of the fellows in the legislature said let's ask him some questions about this well that was pretty bad that was as bad as your trouble your friend was in and so they asked him to explain section 364b and this fellow didn't know this assemblyman didn't know what to do but he had an inspiration so he got up and in great indignation addressed the entire assembly body and he said what's the matter with you can't you read which is a pretty good answer now this is a peculiarly difficult trying time for a public official to address any audience it's a period of complaint investigation criticism it's a period when the public unfortunately have gotten around to a belief almost a conviction that public service is a pretty dreary business that there are very few if any honest public officials and those who are honest are clock watchers feeders of the public trough and generally rather inferior people I'm not here carrying a torch for all the people in public service but I think that is a desperately unfortunate thing I've been altogether too many investigations conducted by people who are only interested in sensationalism and promoting themselves and in egging on the other critics have been altogether too many newspapers who have approached these problems from that same angle I don't need to tell you what percentage of public officials with whom I've come in contact perhaps at the lower levels of government enterprise neither international nor national but at least on a state and municipal scale how many of these people are honest are hard working are interested in their jobs you don't hear much about them you hear about the others I've only one interest in this book of my friend Cleveland Rogers and I can honestly say it isn't a personal interest it's an interest in showing if it can be done what are the everyday problems what are the everyday reactions of a public official who tries to get something accomplished and I think the book does that it brings out what happened at the time it's not ex post facto brightness it's not the fellow that tells what he would have done if he'd known what he knew later it just shows how you have to meet these problems as they come up from day to day our population is growing our problems are growing with the population people more and more are moving into urban communities and urban communities are tough places to govern it's very easy for the same man on Monday to complain about higher taxes on Tuesday to demand that the public out of the public treasury more be contributed to his favorite charity hospital or what not and on Wednesday to come to some third conclusion and he doesn't seem to see any particular peculiarity in those three points of view that's something we're up against all the time here in New York we have I suppose the most complex government municipal government in the world we have a series of municipalities counting in the entire port district I suppose 60 or 70 of them at least somehow or other they've got to be persuaded to work together for certain common objectives and they do I have no fear personally for the success of democracy in this country I've found public work fascinating business dangerous trade it's true but a fascinating and interesting one not as rewarding from the financial point of view as many others but rewarding and satisfactory in other ways I don't despair of democracy on any level in this country I get mad about it every now and then I guess we all do that doesn't last our New York will somehow solve its problems the most difficult will be solved when conditions get so bad that people have to entrust somebody with ability and experience courage with a job of straightening the thing out we'll get to that here in New York as to traffic housing safety transportation and everything else may take quite a long time but we'll get there now I've only one other thing to say there are more and more people in public service and there are going to be more there may be temporary cuts and probably there should be probably there are people who could be dispensed with without any great loss but as you get more people you have more police and you have more firemen you have more inspectors and as we get further into national affairs we have to bear more than our share of the burden don't be too critical of those of us who are trying our best in this particular vineyard applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause You have been listening to the second of this season's book and author luncheons brought to you transcribed by your city station in cooperation with the New York Herald Tribune and the American Booksellers Association Our speakers today were Robert Moses Bennett Cerf and Elizabeth Bray Vining in a program which came to you from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Astor This has been a public service feature of your city station Stay tuned now for the UN story This is the Municipal Broadcasting System Thank you.