Deputy Director for Operations and Training, New York State Civil Defense Commission. Then local stations will have the opportunity to discuss the subject in terms of their individual communities. Captain Carr, several people have written to us asking if the civil defense training they received during the last war isn't sufficient to meet the present emergency. How about that? During the last war, serious attack without warning was almost impossible. Since high explosive and incendiary bombs required considerable numbers of aircraft to make a raid worthwhile. Today, however, a sneak attack by a single airplane can cause in 10 seconds destruction and havoc and death, which would have required several hundred bombers operating many hours during World War II. The time element of civil defense has been changed. It has been reduced to minutes or seconds. Training must be adapted to meet the requirements of war in an atomic air age. Changing conditions, new problems, and new weapons have of necessity forced much revision of old training material. What about civil defense training today that did not exist during the last war? Are there any new training programs that, let's say, have no precedent in civil defense? Very definitely, Mr. Leonard. One of the most outstanding is the role to be played by the radiological monitor. The addition of radioactivity as a weapon of war has created a new civil defense role, in which radiological monitoring teams will control the disposition of civil defense and military forces in the stricken area following certain types of atomic explosions. The responsibility of these teams is heavy. For the handling of precision radiological instruments calls for precise, intelligent work, and high standards of training are a prime requisite for this work. Is training of these radiological monitors already underway? Yes. Several thousand radiological monitors will be needed throughout the state, and large numbers are already in training. Monitors are receiving instruction in Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Utica, Schenectady, Troy, New Pulse, and New York City. And of course, Captain Carr, new weapons have presented new problems on the medical side, haven't they? Yes, indeed. The medical task, while not greatly changed in its type of work, has expanded tremendously in the scope of its operations. The success or failure of this vast new medical service depends upon speed. A few hours may well mean the difference between life and death for tens of thousands of people in a bombed area. Therefore, in addition to their emergency medical training, which is designed to handle casualties on an unsurpassed scale, all medical units must be trained to move swiftly and with well-coordinated action. It is a tremendous job, both in organization and training. Captain Carr, many of our listeners are veterans who know the value of realistic training, such as our troops undergoing live ammunition firing while training for combat. We've had a number of questions regarding possible training of a similar nation for the nature for civil defense workers. Is there such a program? The training program that most closely parallels the infantrymen's live ammunition combat training is the routine that heavy-duty rescue workers will go through. Rescue work is a tough, dirty, and dangerous job. The requirements for heavy-duty rescue personnel demand passing rigid physical requirements. These men will be going into collapsed and burning buildings or into damaged structures that might collapse on them at any moment. Rescue training schools, the first of which opens in Albany on June 18th, will put these men through simulated, bombed-out areas. They will enter buildings where walls are weakened and may collapse. In general, their training program will simulate, as much as is physically possible, the actual conditions following an atomic bombing of entire cities and will greatly increase operational proficiency. The first of these tests took place at Utica on May 26th. Much was done in the way of aircraft spotters during the last war, Captain Carr. Is this same work being carried out today? Yes, Mr. Leonard. Aircraft spotting, the duty of the Aircraft Warning Service, is one of the key elements of civil defense. In fact, the difference between a city being hit by a sneak attack or receiving a warning of an atomic bomb raid may well depend upon one or a few ground observers who have spotted a bomber that has slipped past the radar defenses. Well, are these spotters receiving the same aircraft identification instruction they did during World War II? No. The primary responsibility of the spotter is to sight and report all aircraft. Identification has become of minor importance due to special conditions prevailing today. The Russian TU bomber, a carbon copy of our B-29, so closely resembles the B-29 that it is impossible to distinguish between the two in the air. Therefore, the spotter reports the airplane and the Air Force determines whether or not it is hostile. The warden service comprises the largest single volunteer group in civil defense. Are they being provided with special training? Yes. The major responsibility of the warden is to inform the people of his sector or block or area of what they may expect in atomic attack. Learning the responsibilities of a warden, though it might not require any high technical or scientific skill, is an important job that requires many hours of indoctrination and training. He or she has to understand the effects of an atomic explosion in order to quell rumors or to answer questions that may arise on the subject. The warden must know how to prevent the spread of panic. He must know how he is to report, what he is to report, and when to report, immediately following an attack. We learned an important lesson from World War II. The essence of modern war and the end towards which all plans are directed is swift action. When the need for action arises, every move must be right. The penalty for uncertainty, fumbling, or failure is needless injury, suffering, and death. Every man, every woman, and every youngster involved in this tremendous civilian army must know his job and know it well. That is why civil defense training is of the utmost importance. Thank you, Captain Henry M. Carr. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. Training for civil defense has a special life and death significance for those of us who live in a primary target area. No one knows that better than the man sitting across the table from me, Colonel Robert L. Crummel, aide to the director of civil defense for the city of New York. To begin, Colonel Crummel, I'd like to ask a question on my own. If I enroll as a volunteer, how many hours a week would I have to devote to training? Unfortunately, I have only a limited amount of time to spare. The time required for training varies among the civil defense forces, Mr. Leonard, depending upon the type of the job. Generally, though, it's two hours per week or one weekday evening for a number of weeks. One weekday evening? I don't think anybody could spare that. Well, people all over the city want details about these training classes. Mrs. R.W., for instance, says, I've heard a lot about the self-help and neighbor-help first aid course. How does this differ from Red Cross first aid? Must I be an enrolled volunteer to take the course, and where is it given? You know, Mr. Leonard, that certain civil defense workers in certain divisions may be called upon to save lives of victims in an emergency. Civil defense workers in these special branches must take the standard first aid course at the American Red Cross. Citizens in general, though, can protect their lives with simple fundamental training in first aid. For them, a new short eight-hour course in self-help and neighbor help has been developed by the New York State Health Department. Is it very different from that standard Red Cross first aid, Colonel Crummel? It's more concise, and it's limited to those injuries which we would expect from a bombing, such as burns, concussions, cuts, fractures, and so on. Naturally, Mrs. R.W. doesn't need to be an enrolled volunteer to take this course. We urge everyone to take it, everyone who wants to help himself, his family, and his neighbors. Well, Colonel, how about the other part of Mrs. R.W.'s question where she asks, where can she enroll for this self-help and neighbor help first aid course? She can enroll for it through the district health centers in the city, and she can find these listed in the telephone book. Colonel Crummel, here's a question from a very conscientious citizen, a Mr. B.D., who writes, I would like to be an air warden, but I'd be afraid to assume the responsibility without adequate training. What kind of training would I get? This course covers the basic concepts of civil defense, the federal, state, and city plans for civil defense, precautions against sabotage and espionage, the study of war gases, and firefighting self-help. Well, this firefighting self-help, is that the elementary firefighting that any man can tackle? Right, Mr. Leonard. Air wardens would have to deal with the small fires in an emergency and leave the fire department and the auxiliary fire corps free to cope with the major blazes. Mr. B.D. has nothing to worry about. When he completes his courses, he will be a trained, informed air warden ready to guide and care for his fellow citizens. Here's someone else who's worrying about the amount of training, Colonel Crummel. Mr. N.F. He writes, I read that the auxiliary police may receive pistols. What training will they get before they're allowed to handle firearms? They will get complete instructions in handling pistols on the police firing ranges before they are given any weapons. And as you know, Mr. Leonard, the auxiliary police will be permitted to carry the pistols only while they are actually on duty. This is just personal curiosity, Colonel Crummel. What else did the auxiliary police study? Oh, self-defense training, all the problems of law enforcement, the rules of evidence, the operating methods of criminals, self-protection against criminals, records and report writing, the principles of sabotage and espionage, all the things that a man would have to know in order to protect life and property, prevent crime, enforce laws, and control traffic. Well, here's a would-be member of the auxiliary police, a Mr. M.K. He writes, I've just graduated from high school. I'm interested in auxiliary police work. But am I old enough? I'm 17. What can you do for him? I'm sorry the auxiliary police can't accept any volunteers under the age of 21. This young man, however, can join the messenger service right now. He is eligible for that at 16. When he is 18, if he wants to, he can switch to the air warden service or several other branches. Another question. Mrs. H.G. writes, at one time, the Office of Civil Defense appealed for space for training classes. Do you still need space? And if so, what kind? Yes, we certainly do need space. Since the schools are generally not available at night, we have to hold our Civil Defense training classes in halls offered by organizations. We appeal to all the charities, clubs, civic groups, churches, and other organizations to lend us space for these training groups. How should they notify you? All they need is to write a letter to the Director of Civil Defense, City Hall, New York 7, New York. Well, our last letter, Colonel Crummel, is from an expert in the field of education. It's this. Why don't you use movies or lantern slides to train large groups? We do. Movies and film strips are being used right now as training aids. So far, we have made extensive use of film productions of the Army, Navy, and commercial companies. Now, the film and film strips produced by the Federal Civil Defense Administration are becoming available and others will be completed soon. That was the last of my questions, Colonel Crummel. Thank you for answering them and thank you for being with us. Next week, our topic will be traffic in an emergency. Our guests, Mr. Casimir A. Kenswick, Assistant Deputy Director for Operations and Training, New York State Civil Defense Commission, and Deputy Commissioner T.T. Wiley of the Department of Traffic, New York City. Try to be with us, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. You've been listening to the 20th in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll answer a variety of questions you listeners have sent us about traffic in an emergency. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at the same time next week. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. is Star Wars.