Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson, E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our program, Our Common Maladjustments, and the discussion for this evening is that feeling of rejection, that old feeling of rejection. I would like to call to your attention that this coming Sunday night, here in the Great Hall, Alistair Cook, who is author of that controversial and much-discussed book, Generations on Trial, concerning the Hiss case, is speaking here on the right to find out. And for those of you who are regular Tuesday night attenders at the Cooper Union, may I remind you that next week we do not have a meeting. Next week is election day, election night, and we feel that everybody should have ample opportunity to vote. And so one week from tonight will be voting night for all good Cooper Unionites, and then we will, of course, resume one week following that on Tuesday evening with our changing moods with Alexandra Adler speaking. Now, we have hidden our speaker this evening. We have put him behind a blackboard, but may I assure you it is only very temporary, and I will retire in a very few seconds to the shelter of that board. But it is not because we have any feeling of rejection for Dr. Saperstein. Far from it. We are very delighted that he has been able to come down here tonight to speak to us on this very fascinating and interesting topic. I should tell you that Dr. Saperstein is associate psychoanalyst at the Psychoanalytic Clinic for Training and Research at Columbia University. He is an adjunct neurologist at the Mount Sinai Hospital, and he is very well known for his book, Emotional Security. Somebody here might possibly read that sometime, Emotional Security. I am going to read it several times. So it gives us a great deal of pleasure tonight to present to you Dr. Milton Saperstein speaking on the feeling of rejection. Dr. Saperstein. Possibly the most universal manifestation of the feeling of rejection, which is almost universally experienced, is seen most frequently in what is known as stage fright. Usually associated with appearing before large groups of people. As soon as I get over my own potential feeling of rejection, I will continue. When I saw the title of the address, which I was supposed to prepare, my first impulse was to change it. Change it from the feeling of rejection to rejection as such. For anybody who suffers from a neurotic feeling of rejection, almost invariably ends up by being rejected. The difference is a very subtle one, and one cannot function with an overall feeling of potential rejection without sooner or later precipitating the thing which they actually fear. is a very basic fear. And this type of precipitation of a basic fear is most important in the feeling of rejection. And how that is accomplished to the detriment of the person's own welfare and well-being will be one of the topics which we will cover tonight. The experience of being rejected is a fairly fundamental and universal experience. It's a very basic human experience in childhood as well as in adult life. For, especially in childhood, despite what the books will tell us about how to raise children, no child has ever been raised with 24-hour-a-day love for 365 days a year. And despite the tendency to insist that this is the normal way to raise a child, it probably has never been successfully accomplished yet. So that every child in the course of his development is bound occasionally and periodically, perhaps not completely and only partially, but is bound to have the feeling of rejection somewhere along the line. And probably no human being has ever been analyzed who in the course of his personal analysis did not describe what was to him very important rejecting experiences. While that is true in childhood, it is perhaps even more true in adult life. No intimate human relationship, no marriage, has ever truly been associated without occasional feelings of rejection from the opposite marital partner or from the close friend. In fact, without rejection or occasional disapproval in childhood, it will be impossible to raise a child without some disturbance in his moral values, some disturbance in his development of a superego or conscience mechanisms. So that rejection or disapproval in one form or another is intrinsic and important in terms of the development of a child. Certainly, no adult experience can be meaningful and can develop in the fullest sense of the word without the occasional expression of disapproval on the part of one partner or the other. In other words, unless such rejection or disapproval is expressed, the person involved would have to be a mind reader to know what displeased the other person. These are all fairly subtle distinctions in the feeling of rejection or in the actual experience of being rejected. We will come back to them. Our problem tonight however, is not too concerned with the subtleties but rather with those individuals who are plagued by a terror of rejection who seem to devote their entire lives to an inordinate desire to gain approval. They are filled with a constant need to ingratiate themselves with other people. They will use any device, any means to please the people around them. Their mood constantly fluctuates in wide ups and downs depending on whether they get that approval or not. There is a feeling of elation when they feel they have pleased people around them and they go into deep depressions of a momentary nature when they feel that they are disapproved of. Such individuals who are plagued by a terror of rejection take no pleasure in their activities. their only interest in the end result in getting the approval in avoiding the feeling of rejection so that work or achievement has no intrinsic merit in its own sense for this type of individual. They are constantly driven only to get approval. Usually this type of person tends to be a passive submissive individual completely dominated by the wishes of others. This type of individual frequently will become a very charming vivacious and almost theatrical person because they learn all the tricks all the techniques for drawing attention to themselves and for gaining approval. They are exquisitely sensitive to their environment because they have learned to go through life constantly appraising their environment in terms of what will please the other person or what will displease the other person. Even in an inanimate environment they can be thrown into a depression by the slightest coldness in the atmosphere. Sometimes one wonders almost as if they have a built-in radar set. They are constantly picking up messages about how other people feel about them and the messages are always correct because they become trained to this constant need to please other people. This type of individual has special forms of the psychosomatic patterns. Various forms of helplessness, illness, very frequently there are illnesses based on particular forms of mimicry, particular patterns of illness which are intended to bring out the greatest sympathy-evoking quality of the people about them. Since these people are so easily disappointed in their expectations, in a sense that they constantly feel that they are being rejected, underneath the surface is very frequently a feeling of hostility toward the people with whom they would like to ingratiate themselves, in a sense that it is so easy for them to be frustrated, to be hurt, to be disappointed. And very frequently, rather than wait for the rejection, they will precipitate the rejection. The feeling is, why wait that long? It's going to happen sooner or later. And they precipitate the rejection and go off crying by themselves. This type of individual who represents our problem tonight is really attempting to please the whole world, trying to find the approval of everybody. They are usually very unselective. It can be with people who are very unimportant in their lives. And as I frequently tell my patients who seem bent on such a course of behavior, this is a very difficult task to try to please everybody, and there's only one way that it can really be accomplished, and that is to drop dead. Then everybody... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... And these people live a living death, in the sense that they become empty shells, anxious to please, but as soon as they develop any capacity, any friendship, sooner or later they're bound to find somebody who will be displeased, so that they have to cut down their activities more and more until they're concerned that they're breathing the same air that somebody else has, and it might displease the other person. so that it becomes a type of vicious circle of repetitive behavior of a very self-destructive nature, and usually associated with a considerable degree of lack of gratification, and one of the reasons for having the blackboard is to outline the particular vicious circle involved. people. The important thing for us this evening is to figure out how people get this way. In other words, Anna is a true psychoanalyst. In order to describe the development of such a pattern, we have to go back to the genetic development of the child and the various human experiences which will precipitate this type of behavior. The newborn child, let us start with the newborn child, has very limited capacities, very limited self-sufficiency of its own. In fact, the newborn child usually has no capacity other than to breathe and to suck. life. Such a newborn child is utterly dependent on his environment and utterly dependent for the approval of other human beings, usually the parents who minister to his needs. In the course of the child's development, he learns new capacities as part of his normal growth process. The average parent feeding the child, tending to the child, is usually quite pleased to see that the child is learning to focus his eyes, to reach out, to play with a toy, to recognize the parents. So that normally, the child, in the development of his new capacities and his new talents, is stimulated to the development of new capacities by the approval of his environment. The child, to return to the newborn child, the newborn child has a certain special method of getting along in the world. When the child is displeased in one fashion or another, the automatic impulse is to cry and to let the parents know that he's displeased or he's unhappy or he's hungry or his diaper is wet or whatever the factor is. the setting up of the cry usually brings the parents to the rescue as quickly as possible. Such a newborn child therefore develops the pattern of crying when he's upset, letting the parents know the parent's coming and helping him out in his difficulty. Such a newborn child, if he has really good parents, may have no real awareness of his own boundaries as an individual in the sense that he may have no true feeling that the things that are going on about him are separate from himself. All he knows is whenever he is displeased something is done to correct that displeasure. Such a newborn child, therefore, utterly helpless, may lie in his crib with the arrogance of a dictator. In a sense, anything I want, all I have to do is yell and I get it. This is what the psychoanalysts now call the stage of primary omnipotence or primary narcissism in the child's development. Sooner or later, however, if the child is developing in a normal environment, this wonderful dream of primary omnipotence is going to come in for a rude awakening. Sooner or later, one or both of the parents will be unable or unwilling to fulfill the child's wishes. This is usually quite a shocking experience to the child. He hadn't reckoned with it. and it means a re-evaluation of his power system. Now, he can accomplish the re-evaluation of his power system and maintain the people around him in the same type of orientation by becoming submissive to their wishes. In other words, when the parents express displeasure or unwillingness to fulfill certain of his desires, he can give up his own omnipotence and say, my parents are omnipotent. My father is the strongest man in the world. My mother is the most loving or whatever it is. And he maintains the same type of relationship by saying they are omnipotent, but I can manipulate them by being submissive to their wishes. This is a stage of secondary omnipotence or delegated narcissism. these words are unimportant. And therefore, the child is put into a stage very similar to the fairy tale of Aladdin's lamp, where the child is completely irresponsible, but all he has to do is rub the lamp and the genie appears and does his wishes. This is a situation when the parents set certain conditions for their loving attention, which is a normal state of affairs. Slowly, the child begins to identify with his parents, begins to take some of their values unto himself, and we get the normal development of the superego or inner conscience mechanism based on the attempt to meet with the wishes of the powerful figures around them, parents, teachers, and other human beings. and he develops an internal regulatory system. The unfortunate thing is that the conditions which are set for that approval by the parents or what the child has to do not to have the feeling of rejection, very frequently the things which the parents wish for the child are a set of conditions which may make it impossible for him to live on an adult level. To give you an example of what I mean, the two sets of impulses which are most approved or most disapproved in the course of a child's development are the hostile impulses, that is the self-assertive wishes, the desire to hit his little brother on the head, or, in other words, or the sexual wishes. Now, if the circumstances for approval in childhood are too restrictive, then the capacities which he learns to restrict in order to maintain approval may be such that they interfere with his development because in the course of his development into adult life, he may need his capacity to be assertive, he may need his capacity to be competitive, and he may need his capacity for sexual functioning. So that if the impulses are too diffusely suppressed, we get an individual who is constantly tearing himself down, building up the people around him with no sense of his own capacities or capacities for independent functioning, and constantly looking to the people around him for some type of reassurance, love of one kind or another. so that the guilt systems which precipitate this course of unusual dependency are usually built around the impulses which come out as causing the most type of disturbance in analytical work, being the hostile impulses and the sexual impulses in one form or another. even if the parents should be perfect parents by our modern day standards, the total standards for childhood and adult life are so widely discrepant in our own society that it is almost a necessity that every individual has some feeling of guilt and some incapacity in one form or another, because in contrast to various primitive societies of one kind or another, our own society has almost completely opposite standards for childhood versus those for adult life. In other words, it's possible in our society to have a very good child by normal moral standards who will be a mess as an adult and vice versa. Now, it becomes obvious then that the approval-rejection system is of crucial importance in the development of functioning in a community such as I know. Let me just describe on the blackboard some of the repetitive nature of the dependency system of the need for approval as we see it in adult life as a result of this particular course of events which I have just described. At the cornerstone would be the state of anxiety which all psychoanalysts consider the basic core of the neurosis. That's anxiety. I won't write on the blackboard. I'll give off. I won't bother to write on the blackboard. It's too hard to see and it takes me away from the microphone. But there are various stages in this vicious circle. The first, the attempt of the child and the adult to handle the state of anxiety in the unusual dependency state is first seeking an omnipotent parental figure. That would be one. Seeking an omnipotent parental figure. In order to accomplish that successfully, there has to be a denial of one's own capacities as a human being, which is always followed by a state of submissiveness and the need to ingratiate. This leads to magical expectations, which the other person can never fulfill, because as the individual develops and reaches closer and closer to adult life, it's harder and harder for the parental figures to fulfill his needs, whereas it's relatively easy early in childhood. So that's followed by disappointment in the magical expectations, which in turn leads to resentment or hostility. The person who's disappointed. But since these individuals are unable to express their hostility or their resentment for fear of losing support, they invariably develop a stage of guilt and helplessness, which throws them either into a depression, a state of passivity, a variety of psychosomatic manifestations, or a diffuse hypochondriasis, which in turn leads them back to the state of anxiety. And this type of individual is constantly going in their ups and downs in an attempt to resolve their problems out of a need to find approval from somebody else to ingratiate themselves with another human being. To recapitulate these few facts, it is obvious that a child cannot flourish without approval for most of his activities. The whole self-esteem system is based on approval. In other words, a child feels if my parents love me, I love myself. And the child feels relatively important, confident, based on the degree of approval which he gets from his parents. And we have learned only too recently in the hard way that you cannot raise a child without that type of identification system. In other words, the average old-fashioned orphan asylum where there was no single parental figure for each individual child invariably, almost invariably, ended up with schizoid individuals who had no capacity to make effective human contact with other people. They couldn't reach out the way a child can who was seeking approval and getting it. so that while the state of being approved is an important aspect of raising a child, it's not quite that easy because a totally permissive environment is equally bad. And while in former years, many children came to the various clinics crushed, anxiety-ridden, insecure, nowadays, in the more totally permissive type of environment, we develop a different type of pattern, which is a psychopathic child without any sense of right or wrong, no social or moral continuity with his community, the person who needs immediate gratification for all his needs and nobody has the right to cross him. So that whereas previously the children were crushed too much by constant harsh disapproval in the Victorian or Germanic system, now the parents come to the clinics not because the children are disturbed but because they're disturbed. Children feel fine. Children feel fine. And slowly the pendulum is reaching the appropriate middle point as everybody gets scarred in the process. We have learned, therefore, that total rejection in childhood is a very crushing experience. And it's been very interesting to watch the course of development of psychiatry. The patterns of excessive dependency were perhaps the first described by Freud, Charcot, the early psychiatrists around the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century. And since excessive dependency became such a flagrant manifestation of the human psychoneurosis, the pendulum started to swing in terms of we will raise children who will not be excessively dependent by denying them that dependency in childhood. In other words, they won't get used to it, they won't get spoiled, they won't be overprotected. And the whole behaviorist school of psychology was based on that. The mothers were making their children too dependent. Get them out of the home as quickly as possible. Do everything possible to prevent this type of overprotection. And so what we usually see in clinical practice is the adult who had none of his dependency needs fulfilled in childhood and who devotes his entire adult life to getting them. In other words, he can't beat the system. The child has to get his dependent needs fulfilled when he is a child. If not too frequently, we see such individuals seeking the fulfillment of their dependent needs later in adult life. So that in recent years, practically all the works have emphasized the important need to fulfill these dependent needs in childhood. While a child needs as much approval as possible to build up his own self-esteem, we have also learned that a child can take a considerable amount of rejection if he feels basically loved. In other words, it doesn't have to be continuous. In fact, no parent can possibly fulfill all the need for love which a child has. No single human being can give a child its fill of his capacity to be loved. On the other hand, a child can feel when he is basically loved and accepted. And within that framework, almost needs the authoritarian hand, the direction, the giving of him goals, the rejection of some of his bad behavior in order to offer him some framework for building up values of right or wrong. And this perhaps harsher or punishment aspect is intrinsic in terms of raising effective children. The basic principle in terms of dealing with these problems in childhood would seem to be that there always has to be one arm around the child to support him. The other arm may occasionally have to be used to bat him down. And so that in terms of the rejection systems of childhood, when they're all pervading, the child will be completely crushed. When there is no rejection of any aspect of a child's behavior, he will be crushed in the opposite direction. That's for childhood. The question that comes up is, how much fear of rejection or feeling of rejection is normal in adult life? In other words, how sensitive should the average adult human being be in terms of being upset when some aspect of behavior himself is rejected? I've met many people who claim that the rejection of the people about them does not affect them. They don't get upset when they get rejected. In my experience, these people are all frauds, because I haven't met anybody yet who was reasonably healthy who wasn't upset when he was rejected. This is a realistic rejection. In other words, every healthy human being would like a maximum degree of approval. On the other hand, he may have to learn to compromise and to live with less than the maximum amount. That doesn't mean that he's going to like it. He works out a framework for his life which will realistically allow him to live in a competitive world. The details of that I will give you in a few moments. In order to answer the question of how much fear of rejection is normal in adult life, I would have to describe to you my conception of how much dependency on other human beings is normal in later life. There are some people who are completely independent of other human beings, in the sense that they are completely unconcerned with what other people think of them. These are not the fraudulent people I'm talking about. These are the people who are in the state hospitals, the paranoid schizophrenics. The average person is not quite that self-sufficient. He has some needs of his relationships for other human beings. And in order to do that, in order to describe how much of that one would consider normal, one would have to define the areas of normal dependency on other human beings. The first criterion that one would have to set would be that in normal dependency, the dependency is periodic. In other words, it's not a full-time way of life. In other words, it's temporary. It represents a battery charger of one kind or another, a fulfillment of residual dependent needs from childhood. You see, the human being, in contrast to other animal, comparable animals, grows and develops in an atmosphere of dependency and approval. He can never completely undo his childhood. If he could undo his childhood, he ceases to be a social human being, as we know him, and as a gregarious human being. On the other hand, as I say, the first criterion is, as he approaches adult life, he doesn't need it full-time. He needs it part of the time. When he is upset, or when he is sick, or when he loses a job, he may turn to a friend or a marital partner for some type of reassurance or comfort. In order to do this successfully, and this is perhaps the most difficult thing in modern times, he has to find an appropriate person who is willing to accept his dependent needs. In other words, a human being who becomes dependent on another human being who has no desire to fulfill his dependent needs is being an awful fool, because he is invariably being rejected. So the capacity to be perceptive enough and to have the human relationships to fulfill those needs at times of momentary insecurity is the second criterion. The third criterion, which I would set, would be that normal dependency on other human beings is always alternating and reciprocal, in the sense that neither one stays on bottom all the time or on top. The capacity to alternate the roles, so that there should not be a sense of humiliation, so that any human being who is dependent on other human relationships, in all of his relationships, one would have to label as a very neurotic individual. But by contrast, the individual has to be omnipotent all the time, and always has to be self-sufficient, and can never admit that he ever has any human weaknesses of any kind, is equally a sick person of a different kind. The fourth criterion, which I would set for healthy dependent needs, would be that it more or less has to be restricted to the close personal relationships, at minimum in the impersonal relationships. Thus, a man who is acting very submissive, pathetic, ingratiating, to a competitor in business is being very neurotic. On the other hand, if in a similar relationship with a close friend who is prepared to comfort him in a time of need, that would not necessarily be considered neurotic. Unfortunately, while these sound like very simple principles, in actual clinical practice, more often than not, we find the individual acting very pathetic and insecure in business or in competitive relationships, and completely hiding his dependent needs where they can be fulfilled in his close, warm, human relationships. So those are the criteria which I would set for normal dependency. And the capacity to sustain occasional feelings of rejection, which usually are quite real in one form or another, is intrinsic to living in a competitive society, which at the same time allows a human being to fulfill some of these needs of one kind or another within the framework of his close human relationships. Now, this becomes comparable then to living in a situation where, in a sense, you have your own home team of close human relationships, and therefore go out to do battle in a competitive situation of one kind or another, whether creative or commercial of one kind or another, with the feeling that there, there may be rejection, there may be competition, there may be indifference, but you can sustain it if you have healthy human relationships to fall back on in a very comparable situation to a reestablishment of a new family unit. Unfortunately, the number of close, intimate, effective human relationships which a person can develop in order not to feel rejected outside are very few in the course of a lifetime, either with a marital partner, a few close friends, a parent. Unfortunately, the average neurotic individual whom one meets is constantly looking for total relationships everywhere and doesn't find them and therefore messes them all up. He's looking for a kind of wholeness, a purity in all of his impersonal relationships when it has no place there. So that one has to deal with the concept of partial relationships, that there are many relationships which are accepted only in terms of the particular fragment of that kind of relationship. This is a good person to do business with. This is a good person to go to movies with. This is a good person to spend a summer vacation with, but I wouldn't want him to be a partner in business. And in the course of a lifetime, the expectations that there will be a few whole relationships, but that for the others, there is always the implication of potential rejection. I think I'll answer some questions now. Thank you very much, Dr. Saperstein. Those people who like to ask questions may do so on the microphone right here or I have some paper here. Welcome home. Here. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you very much, doctor. Thank you very much, doctor. Well, we have quite a few questions here. Apparently, most everybody wants me to read them. I'm delighted to do that, of course. And we will go right along through as many as we can. Dr. Saperstein, if you will come up here now, sir, and see how we get along with these. We will...we have a little bit of time now. We can get over some of these. Doctor, is abnormal rejection... An abnormal rejection feeling always accompanied by an abnormal feeling of guilt? If not always, are they in most cases associated together? And in about what percentage of cases? How about that guilt and rejection feeling? I would say yes. In most cases of a feeling of rejection, there is a sense of guilt and a sense of unworthiness in one form or another. I would say in practically all cases. In fact, the person who has an abnormal feeling of rejection usually is rejecting himself as well. And many...an individual of this kind will come to the office and say that he constantly feels rejected or he is looking for a relationship and cannot find it of the kind that he wants. In the course of his discussion, it becomes quite apparent to any outside observer that there are many people who are potentially interested in him or who are nice to him. When that is pointed out to him, he will almost invariably dismiss those people with a feeling, oh, that person bores me or I'm not interested in that person. In other ways, they themselves are seeking out the individuals who will reject them and have contempt for anybody who thinks well of them. In other words, the underlying reasoning is as follows. If I think so little of myself, this person who is in love with me must be an awful jerk. I fooled him. And so the rat race continues indefinitely. And this automatic deflation of anybody who seems interested in them becomes such an unconscious or automatic response. And they are invariably led into relationships out of their own guilt and unworthiness in which they face humiliation. And it is a very difficult task, very frequently, to prevent these people from disturbing potentially good relationships. They are constantly looking for an opening to return to their state of rejection. All right, Doctor, and thank you. How does a person subjected to lifelong rejection do away with some of it? Or can he ever feel accepted to the degree of a normal person? How about those poor rejected people? You know, like we all... Can we ever get out of it, Doctor? Anybody who has been associated with a lifelong feeling of rejection could never get out of it. In other words, they would be a completely crushed person. Fortunately, there are very few such people who have been rejected in all of their relationships. They may have had difficulties along the line, but there was an uncle, an aunt, a grandmother, a close friend of one kind or another, to partially sustain some of the difficulty. But total rejection of any human being would literally make them an unsalvageable human being. Well, I hope that we all have not quite totality here in this business. Doctor, a little problem here. How can a wife handle a husband who constantly seeks the approval of others? If Mrs. Fairchild isn't here tonight, I... This one I'll pass. All right, Doctor. Uh, uh, Dr. Saperstein, will you kindly talk a little bit about the parent who over-protects and over-loves the child? Is that, uh, one, on the subject? And two, uh, would you like to talk about that? Yes. Yes. Here you deal with my own personal prejudices, uh, which perhaps might not be generally accepted. I don't think there is such a thing as over-loving a child. And I don't think there is such a thing as over-protecting a child. In other words, a child, uh, can get all the protection and all the love he needs, and still within that framework, have ample room for his own personal growth, for seeking out other human relationships. Uh, the constant preoccupation which has been, uh, fed, for the fact that human neurosis is, uh, precipitated by too much protection, or too much loving the child, uh, I can't quite agree with. There are other factors within that framework, uh, which can precipitate all kinds of emotional problems. But, uh, a child can be protected from all kinds of potential hurts and damages, uh, of a traumatic nature, and still, uh, have normal capacity for growth. And, uh, I think that what the average parent has to worry about is much more the opposite of under-protection and under-love. All right. Thank you very much. Doctor, would you discuss the feeling of rejection of the adolescent encounters? Um, this mentions with particular reference to sex, but how about the, uh, feeling of rejection in adolescence? Would you mention that a little bit? Well, normally the adolescent, uh, uh, reaches this stage of his life with, uh, after a period of relatively long period of sexual inhibition. If one assumes that every child has the capacity, uh, capacity for some degree of sexual pleasure, and that the normal inhibitory processes of childhood, as we know them, cause him to go into a latency period, then when the adolescents, uh, begin to emerge into puberty, uh, there is a sense of guilt, shyness, and it's the usual pattern that one sees in adolescence. What the adolescent frequently doesn't realize is that at this point, the parents and the world about him are quite prepared to accept him, in terms of sexual maturation. Uh, but he feels, on the other hand, on the basis of his early childhood conditioning, that the same type of disapproval is in operation. Uh, so that the, uh, average adolescent, uh, uh, uh, in a sense has to go through his rebellious period in order to knock down the tin gods, which he feels are in some way interfering with his growth. Uh, with that, there's always a feeling, as sexuality begins to emerge, uh, of some degree of potential rejection from parents, loved ones, or other things. And this is normal for the particular society that we live in. Thank you. Uh, doctor, you didn't mention very much about the economic problems, the wars, and so forth, which cause parents to instill anxiety into their children, who in turn receive neurosis from, uh, their parents. Now, what can be done about parents who are constantly worried about the problems of practical life they face today? How can they avoid instilling these anxieties into their children? Would that cause any rejection, do you think, in any way? Uh, I really should skip this one. Um, but I won't. Uh, I cannot honestly discuss the, uh, what the economic problems should, how the economic problems should be handled, which precipitate anxiety on the part of parents, um, and in turn precipitate anxiety in the children. Uh, this is a social problem, which I feel is beyond my competency. Uh, I'm not gonna have my own personal ideas, but I'm no authority on that compared to the average person. On the other hand, uh, the, uh, when it comes to the economic range and the degree of rejection which a child experiences, uh, my own practice, uh, and my own contact and personal life as well in practice has been from the poorest to the richest. And, uh, the most frightful rejections that I see are always in the upper, upper economic classes and the most secure group. Uh, this may sound paradoxical, but a poor family, uh, the children are always with the mother. Whether she screams or not, they're always with her. Um, the parents don't go away for weekends. They don't have hard help, uh, and some of the most stable personalities, uh, are seen on the poorer levels, in which the family unit is held together by their common difficulties in handling the outside world. That type of bond is rarely seen in the very successful and upper economic brackets, where many of the children yearn for the kind of family unit where the mother is in the kitchen and working, and she, they can be around the mother. So that my, uh, while I'm not, uh, pleading any cause for poverty here, the, uh, uh, I think that the most encouraging thing to me is the increasing awareness in the upper economic brackets that the parents still have to raise their own children. And in the younger generation of upper economic brackets, there's more and more emphasis, even though the hired help is available, and everything that goes with it, that the family unit still has to remain intact, which it wasn't 20 years ago. In the average family that could afford help, very frequently the children were raised by other people and the parents. Doctor, does it help to balance the relationship of a person to the world if he knows these childhood reasons for his present feelings of rejection and disturbance? Is there any way that we can go back and think about these childhood things without professional guidance, sir? That's a hard question for me to answer because normally I wouldn't meet anybody who developed this particular insight without professional help because usually I would be associated with it. In other words, how much help do people get by understanding some of their problems outside of a professional framework? I honestly can't answer the question. I don't think anybody else can that I know of. Normally, appearing at an occasional lecture, as I do, meeting people who have read a particular book that I've written, I get the impression that the insights which they developed have confused them even more. That's the impression that I get. But as I say, I meet only a particular fragment. When I make a statement of that kind, usually, but you haven't met all the hundreds who have been helped by this kind of thing outside of professional help. And I honestly hope that that is true. We do know that it is perfectly possible for an individual to develop all kinds of insights and not feel any better for it. In other words, insight enough or intellectual reconstruction doesn't solve all the problems and many other factors involved. And many people have no insight of any kind and seem to function very well. So that familiarity with one's own background is just part of the problem which psychoanalysis has to face. It's much more complex than that. But in general, knowing why one feels in a certain way and having some understanding, we would have to say in general, is a helpful thing to the anxiety-ridden person. Sir? Is the ability to live with one's environment based on intelligence or emotional stability? And what is the difference between them, if there is any? I'm prejudiced. I couldn't answer a question of this kind without exposing my own personal prejudice. I'm against intelligence in general. I don't know. In other words, I personally tend to be anti-intellectual. Having grown up in an environment of my own where nobody would talk to anybody unless they were a genius, and seeing what has developed from that particular group, I'm prejudiced against it. On the other hand, we do know that intelligence and emotional stability are so closely tied up in the sense that intelligence isn't available to a person who isn't thinking in a stable fashion or living in a stable fashion. And I wouldn't trust the intelligence of anybody who was that unhappy at that particular moment. And the whole concept of psychological measurements of intelligence have completely gone by the board. As we understand more of the emotional development, the whole intelligence rating can be shifted with different degrees of stability. So that the ability to live in contact with one's environment, it's nice to be intelligent and emotionally stable. But intelligence without the stability, to me, is a useless attribute. Doctor, is there sufficient clinical evidence to warrant the inference that long-standing active rejection can seriously block the growth and development of intelligence? And in this connection, then, how valid are the IQ scores where internal emotional confusion does exist? I think I answered that. All right? Want to mention again? There is a... How about the validity of the IQ scores? As far as I'm concerned, the IQ scores have very little validity in a state of emotional confusion. Usually, the well-trained psychologist can handle that factor and take it into account. But certainly, the capacity to live an effective life is not too closely tied up with the intelligence. Speaking as a member of the medical profession, I know that I would much rather go to a doctor who was conscientious, thorough, a good human being, knew his work, etc., etc., etc., and who was a moderately good physician in intelligence rating terms, and to go to a genius who did not have those other attributes. And that's true in every aspect of life. Doctor, could you discuss where disapproval ends and rejection begins? I've been using them in the same sense. Perhaps I shouldn't. Normally, rejection would be used as a harsher word and more completely. For the purposes of my talk, it was convenient to use partial rejection in the sense of disapproval. All right, sir. How can conditioned reflex therapy help a person with feelings of rejection? I won't mention the name of the book. Uh, uh, uh, I don't know. All right, doctor. You're terrific. It's nice, nice to have such an honest man up here. Um, Dr. Saperstein, uh, how do you overcome these little feelings of dejection that we all have? Uh, uh, I assume this question is addressed to me personally. Uh, I do it the way everybody else does. Uh, uh, uh, in other words, the average person handles, uh, uh, a minor sense of depression by reaching out in his human relationships, by running around the block, by distracting himself by going to a movie or listening to some good music, or from playing with his children, or calling up an old friend. In other words, the normal, uh, uh, there are a limited number of ways that are available to all of us. Uh, I try to use as many as are available to me. All right, don't, uh, don't, uh, don't go away. A gentleman asks this question, sir. When a person walks into a room and there's a very cool reception, he feels always when he walks in the room, there's this very, uh, cool feeling. Uh, what kind of rejection is this? Is there any particular form of that, uh, anxiety? Will you answer that? I'll skip that. Did you feel any when you walked in here this evening? Was there? I'm skipping this one. All right. I don't know. We have a lot of things here. Uh, doctor, will you kindly explain a wife's constant nagging of her husband? Is there a feeling of rejection connected with nagging? Skip it. Uh, doctor, is it known that a feeling of rejection, an inferiority complex is usually covered by a superiority complex? Do all people who are self-centered have deep feelings of rejection? If not, does this superiority complex, if not, where does this superiority complex arise from? Uh, the language used here is no longer used in the sense of inferiority complex, superiority complex, superiority complex. In general, one would say that the excessive need to be self-sufficient, to be complete unto oneself, uh, when it is carried in all, into all of the human relationships, is an attempt to cover up any dependent needs of one kind or another. In other words, these are hurt human beings. When you look at them, uh, uh, you may not, you may get the feeling that you're being hurt yourself, but basically they've been previously hurt themselves. Uh, it's a tough question to answer, but it reminds me of a joke. So I'll tell the joke to illustrate it. Um, there are many variations on the joke. I'm sure you've heard it. Uh, I originally heard it in a Yiddish context, uh, of the individual in a certain town in Eastern Europe who, uh, uh, found out on a certain Friday that there was no chicken for chicken soup that night. And this was a major emergency in the home, uh, the tradition being chicken soup on Friday night. And he spoke to his wife, who commiserated with him. And then they finally remembered that, uh, so-and-so in the next town four miles away, whom he had been of such assistance in his younger days, now had a chicken farm. And, uh, wonderful idea, we'll have to go to see, let's call him Abraham, and see if he could borrow a chicken from him. And he started to walk down the road and says, wonderful to have friends, they help you out in your time of need, etc., etc. But as he continued to walk, suddenly, perhaps he wouldn't give him the chicken. Why that no good? And it goes on. And he begins to play back and forth. And finally he reaches the falling town. He knocks on the door. Abraham opens the door and he says, keep your goddamn chicken. That is the average patient. Uh, uh. Dr. What is the significance of a personality which is dominated by a desire to reject the personality of others? Dr. This person is asking about the individual who, uh, feels the need to reject every other human being. Reject the personality of all other human beings. In order to do that, he has to become an island unto himself. He has to slowly, uh, become increasingly grandiose. He has to completely deny any need for affection because affectionate needs for other people means to need their personality. And the end result of this kind of excessive self-sufficiency is the paranoid individual, uh, who, in your usual movie production, is Jesus Christ or the equivalent. In the sense, I don't need anybody. I am God myself. We see much lesser variations, uh, in less sick people. But, uh, the individual who has the need to constantly tear down other people and to build himself up is completely denying, uh, the fact that other people have any meaning to him. All right. Thank you. Is it possible to live alone and like it, Dr. Sappersen? That is, in the sense, that bachelor girls or bachelor men, uh, live alone without, with no family ties. Does that make for an inherent feeling of rejection within the individual or not? Yes. How would you advise them to get out of that, sir? I couldn't. Uh, somebody here seems to feel that, uh, my own personal ego needs bolstering by ridiculing questioners and by the speaker. Now, if anybody else has that point of view, will you please forget it? Because, believe me, I love every questioner. I couldn't have too many questions. And the speakers, I get to come here, so I must be in favor of them. But if you have, if that poor person has that idea, will, please, uh, you've mistaken some slight mannerism that I may have. It is not a, it is not a feeling that you happen to think there. Uh, doctor, in what ways is a natural antisocial being antisocial? Describe an antisocial being for us. It should be self-evident. The doctor thinks it's self-evident. I don't know. I think that antisocial is self-explanatory. All right, then, doctor. Thank you very much for answering these questions, please.