New York City, where seven and one half million people live in peace and enjoy the benefits of democracy. New York advances January 1st, 1939. Today on the threshold of a new year, the officials of the city of New York, headed by the mayor, the Honorable Fiorello H. Ligardia, and many of the heads of the various city departments, have gathered in the studios of the municipal station with an accounting of activity during the past year. Chief city in the state of New York, the greatest metropolis in these United States, the largest city in the Western Hemisphere, melting pot of nations, center of commerce, giant of industry. This is the Empire City. This is little old New York. On January 1st, 1938, the oath of office is administered for the second time to Fiorello H. Ligardia. At the home of Judge Seabury, the words of the oath are pronounced. I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of mayor of the city of New York according to the best of my ability. Ladies and gentlemen of New York, we present the mayor of America's greatest city. The people of the city of New York, the commissioners, departments, bureaus, join with me in wishing you all a most happy new year. We want you to know that this is your city government, and that it is our duty and task to serve you and to serve you well. On behalf of the city administration, we wish you now a happy new year, and we'll endeavor in the next hour to present to you about five minutes of our daily work. This program, a dramatized review of the municipal year of 1938, is addressed to you, the seven and one half million people of New York. New York advances! New York advances! It is a figure that has been the source for all civilization's advances. It is a figure that has shed more light on darkness, given more courage for achievement. It is a figure that is the strongest pillar of democracy, a figure that assays the past, holds up the present, and molds the future. It is the figure of the teacher. We introduce a member of New York's Board of Education, the Honorable Johanna M. Lindelof. I consider that the outstanding contribution of the Department of Education is the practice of democracy that is being fostered throughout the educational system and in its administrative offices. I believe that the commissioners are the representatives of the public, that therefore the doors of their offices must always be open to interested citizens, so that the commissioners may be constantly aware of what is in the mind of the people whom they represent. I believe that under no administration has there been a greater desire to improve the educational system of the city of New York and to meet all the needs of all the children intelligently. To accomplish this, none can give better assistance than a well-informed, cooperative citizenship. This tremendous educational system has not been a matter of overnight creation. The struggle for the present status has encompassed the full span of all the years of mankind. In the early days of our history, a group of solid, substantial, thrifty Dutch, under the aegis of the West India Company, came to the shores of America and settled on a piece of land at the approach of the Hudson River. This was New Amsterdam, a noisy, pulsing, vigorous colony of men and women, foreshadowing the gigantic energy of the New York of today. In common council, the good burghers gather for lawmaking. We come now to the matter of schools. It is your suggestion, Herr Van Herc, that we pattern our schools on those of our country? I do. For what use is the past unless the presents make use of it? I am inclined to agree. We are in a new country, and the best way we can make our children appreciate the honor and the possibilities of this venture is to educate them. We will all pay a tax for the upkeep of the school and the teachers, whom the worthy fathers will select. All the children whose parents cannot afford the fees of tuition will become the charges of the state. We shall proceed at once to erect this first school of New Amsterdam. This shall be the beginning. I hope that nobody will ever see the end. Thus was established in 1633 not only the first public school, but also the first school in American soil. In 1664, New Amsterdam fell before the British onslaught. The settlement became a town, developed and showed the first signs of cityhood, and was renamed New York. We hold these truths to be self-evident. That all men are created equal. That they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights. That among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The declaration of America's independence summed up in these thrilling words are truly an early cornerstone of the American educational system. With a war with Britain at an end, the young country turns with high spirits to setting the house in order and turning it into a home. 1784. Six months after the cessation of the war, the New York State Assembly passed an act creating the University of the State of New York. Immediately, divergent opinions were voiced. We've just finished the war. Let education wait a while. We have enough worries. Let the parents attend to us children's education. It's a good idea, but where is the money coming from? I say, do you really mean that you intend to educate everybody? Even the masses? At the state capitol, Governor Clinton's committee, headed by Alexander Hamilton, delivers a report. Your committee feels bound to add that erecting public schools for teaching reading, writing, and arithmetic is an object of very great importance, which ought not to be left to the discretion of private men, but be promoted by the public authority. 1849. The New York State Legislature enacts a law establishing free schools throughout the state. But the next year, the conservatives attack the measure and call for its repeal. The issue is placed before the people of the state. At the headquarters of the group, fighting for the law in New York City, a glum set of faces watch a blackboard. They're certainly tearing the bill to pieces upstate. You stupid fools. Throwing it to the line. We're 10,000 behind now. Have the New York City votes come in yet? It looks bad unless New York comes through with a tremendous vote. New York vote coming in. They're changing the board. What should the figures read? New York against repeal. 38,000. Gentlemen, that wipes out the upstate vote saves the bill. We not only wipe out the upstate vote, but we wipe out the shame that would have been sure to result had the bill been repealed. Today, New York City possesses the greatest educational network of schools and cultural agencies. Here, 1,088,780 students attend schools whose functions have been broadened and expanded to match advancing social and economic needs. Problem. Richard Green, a high school graduate, is out of work. Each day, he makes the rounds. What's your experience been? I haven't had any, but I want to learn. Sorry, we have nothing for you. What was your last job? I'm just beginning, but I'll start small. Sorry, we have nothing for you. What is your background? I'm an apprentice. Sorry, we have nothing for you. But what are your qualifications? I haven't any, but I'll work hard. Sorry, we have nothing for you. The problem of vocational training has been met by the New York educational system. The year 1938 featured a highlight in this educational trend. November 29th, 1938. At 8th Avenue and 24th Street in Manhattan stands a new competent building. This is the Central High School of Needle Trades, just completed. Dedicating the school to its important purpose, the mayor of New York said in part, Other cities had better wake up if they want to take their place in American life. New York City is setting the pace. It is setting the right kind of example. The rest of the country will have to come up to our standards because we refuse to descend to the depths of theirs. Honorstone for Democracy. An education for everybody. New York advances. New York advances. New York advances. New York advances. New York advances. New York advances. My name is Abner S. Watson, M.D. I've been a doctor in New York for almost 24 years now, and, well, I've seen a good deal. I've seen life come and go, and I've seen what sickness can do. And I think that of all the work I've done, I've gotten the most satisfaction from helping children. Because when you help a child, it's not so much a repair job as a construction project. Now, the Department of Health thinks so, too. They do one of their best jobs right here in the schools, looking after the health of the children. It's natural. The Department is like a doctor with a great many patients, and the biggest job for a doctor is, after all, keeping his patients well. Now, I know a nurse, a very confident girl, who works in a city school. I'm sure something's wrong with Johnny Nurse. He doesn't sit or stand straight. He's dull and sleepy in class. He's massive. What did the school doctor's examination show? Johnny is suffering from malnutrition. My guess is that a visit to his home will tell us all we want and all. Hello, Johnny. Is your mother in? Huh? Oh, sure. Ma! Somebody wants to see you! Yes, I'm coming. Oh, who are you? I'm the nurse from the health center. Johnny was examined in school today, and I'd like to talk to you for a few moments, if I may. Come in and sit down. Johnny, bring in another chair from the kitchen. Okay, Ma. Is anything wrong with Johnny? That's what I've come to talk to you about. By the way, how's your husband? He always tries his best, but it's hard when a man's best days are behind him. A sick man is always the first to be laid off. He hasn't been working now for almost six months. It's his cough. Whenever he starts to work, he gets sick again. Is there somebody else working in the family? Joe. That's Johnny's big brother. He's got a little job, but it isn't enough. I work mornings in the restaurant around the corner. I start early, so I got time to take care of Johnny and the baby after school. How old is the baby? Going on six months now. She doesn't give any trouble. She's a very quiet baby. Where is your husband now? He's sick in bed in the other room. When he starts coughing like that, the only thing he can do is to lie down. Oh. Well, before I talk to you about Johnny, I'd like to ask you to come down to the health center tomorrow afternoon. Well, I can't do much traveling, and where is it? Two blocks down, across the street from the school. Why, it's near here. When do you want me to come? Anytime during the afternoon, and I want you to bring your whole family. You mean everybody? My husband, Joe, Johnny, and the baby? Everybody? Yes, everybody. And everybody came. At the health service the next afternoon, the entire family was thoroughly examined. I'm afraid your husband has tuberculosis. He will be a helpful man again only if you send him to a hospital. Rest, good food, and fresh air are the only medicines that can cure him. He must be put to bed immediately in a hospital. But we can't afford anything like that. We can hardly get along as it is. I know that. But the city will take care of your husband, and it won't cost you a penny if you can't pay. We'll lose the little wages he makes. But I suppose there's no other way. He's got to get well. There's more to it than just your husband. Do you know your children are undernourished? I do the best I can. Of course you do. It's a big job, and you need help. Everybody needs a little help sometimes, and we're here to give it to them. There's the office of the local welfare organization right here in the center. I'll take you up right now and introduce you to the lady in charge. An hour later, a woman was about to leave that health center. There was hope in that woman, hope in a renewed start in life, hope where there had been nothing but despair and the expectation of drudgery day by day to provide the barest necessities of existence. The woman's face shone with the joy of five lives reborn, and those were the lives of her family. And I want you to come on the days I told you. There will be classes that teach you how to take care of the baby, how to cook nourishing meals cheaply, and we'll keep checking up on the children. And my husband will be getting well in the hospital? I'm confident he'll be back on the job and will remain well, provided he follows the doctor's orders. You know, now maybe even Johnny will get good marks in school. You know, these health centers are really wonderful things. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, sign off. This is the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 77, a unit of WNYF, signing off. WNYF calling the Firebolt Hewitt, engine 78 for report. This is the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company number 78, located at the foot of East Lanyard Street in the East River in the Bore of Manhattan, reporting. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, sign off. This is the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company number 78, a unit of WNYF, signing off. WNYF calling the Firebolt Hewitt, engine 85 for report. Firebolt Hewitt, engine 85 for report. This is the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86, located at the foot of Blomfield Street in Manhattan, reporting. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86 for report. WNYF calling the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86 for report. This is the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86, located at the foot of Blomfield Street in Manhattan, reporting. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86 for report. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87 for report. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87, okay to the 135th Street in the Harlem River, reporting. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 86 for unit of WNYF, signing off. WNYF calling the Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87, okay to the 135th Street in the Harlem River, reporting. Okay, Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87 for report. Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87 for report. Firebolt Hewitt, engine company 87 for report. calling the fireboat gainer engine 223 for report this is the fireboat gainer engine company 222 located at the foot of 37th street brooklyn report no k okay fireboat gainer sign off this is the fireboat gainer engine company 223 a unit of wnyf now signing off wnyf calling the fireboat mitchell engine 232 for report this is the fireboat mitchell engine company 232 located at the foot of noble street brooklyn reporting okay fireboat mitchell sign off this is the fireboat mitchell engine company 232 a unit of wnyf signing off wnyf calling the fireboat tender smoke for report this is the fireboat tender smoke located at the place of engine company 57 at battery park manhattan reporting okay fireboat tender smoke sign off fireboat tender smoke a unit of wnyf signing off this is station wnyf the radio alarm system of the new york fire department operating on a frequency of 1630 kilocycles dispatcher 53 signing off you have just heard an actual radio roll call of new york city's fleet of fireboats and the whistle salute to his honor the mayor by means of two-way radio communication the dispatcher has spoken in turn with each of the ten fireboats located at salient points throughout the city now the man who is the chief of new york's army and navy of firefighters comes to our microphone with a new year's message for his firefighters and for the seven and a half million whose lives and property they protect as well as the 578 miles of territory the career of fire commissioner mckelligott parallels 33 years of the fire department's progress he started in 1905 as a fireman and 1934 was appointed to his present post by mayor lagartia the first fire commissioner to rise from the ranks commissioner mckelligott you have indeed called up memories of the past i hasten to add that my time of the fire department does not go back to 1867 but in 1914 i was a young captain in a hook and ladder company in lower manhattan you've just heard the roll call of the fireboats and i think we can truthfully state that new york city is leading the way in utilizing radio facilities it is my hope that the time will come when every officer's car will be equipped with two-way radio and that our fire stations will also have this service we of the fire department have been particularly fortunate in having for our boss a mayor who is at heart a fire buff one of the very first improvements if not indeed the first that was started under the president administration was the replacement of old and worn out apparatus we pride ourselves now in having the very best equipment that engineers have been able to design and manufacturers to build moreover we have the kind of equipment which we want and not the type which a manufacturer might desire to thrust upon us in other words we prepare our own specifications in order to give you an idea of the vast amount of this new apparatus added since january 1st 1934 let me recite the following 99 pumping engines 48 hook and ladder trucks 22 hose wagons 91 chiefs cars 13 hydrant service trucks two searchlight cars 17 delivery trucks and uh one rescue truck at a total cost of two million two hundred and thirty one thousand nine hundred and thirty dollars and ninety seven cents so much for the material side of the fire department you have already heard about the firefighter on this radio program so i will not say anything more about that splendid vessel after all uh the best of apparatus is useless unless you have highly trained and courageous men to operate it we have planned our educational program in the in the department so that today the fire college in long island city is daily filled with officers and men taking special courses pertaining to fire extinguishment and fire prevention in all of its branches the three platoon system is being installed in the department and a year from today it will be effective in every company 300 young men are added to our force every two months and you can readily appreciate the additional administrative work that this installation has entailed yet i think it fair to state that because of a carefully prepared schedule these new men are being absorbed into the department without decreasing our efficiency by the terms of the new city charter which became effective just a year ago fire prevention was restored to the fire department where of course it rightfully belongs you may recall that because of a legislative act this all-important work was temporarily transferred to other city agencies naturally the time allotted me here does not permit me to say as much about our work in the department as i really should like to our primary duty of course is fire extinguishment but those of us in the department feel that we have a real obligation in earning the public respect and cooperation after all it is your department supported by the taxpayers it is our duty to serve you a safer city the force of fire controlled in check new york advances housing a word of blueprints and architects of construction and planning until you know its meaning in terms of the people and their needs it's meaning for one third of the seven and a half million housing i ain't getting any younger men i'd like to have kids around the house we had to didn't we i know it ain't your fault it ain't nobody's fault they died listen to me jim what made those kids die guess it was just bound to be men bound to be it's the house we live in the houses we've always lived in it's these walls these lights no sun no air no decent food and these stinking toilets that's what it is is and you want me to have another kid and have him die when he's a year old or maybe if he's lucky grow up to be a gangster like two gun crawley no damn it no hey wake up come on there man wake up four o'clock you got all the sleep and you're going now my turn now ain't hardly close my eyes well you better open up pretty quick i got some fast sleeping to do i'm sick i'm going to sleep what do you think i pay three dollars a week for this bed for same reason i do you get yours eight hours and i gets mine and bobby gets his come on now get out of that bed i gotta i gotta sleep i tell you i gotta what kind of thing is this anyhow 12 hours a day 10 bucks a week sean mr nice sean sean boss he don't want no sean but i want to sleep i gotta sleep you hear try and get myself a decent room where a man can lay his head when he's sick landlady tells me white folks live here pay city dollars for this flat black ones move in 45 same room same busted banister same lousy sink my god what kind of thing is this turn in the alarm fire fire fire fire crime disease a tragic trio prayer of the tenements these dramatic episodes were from arthur aaron's famous federal theater play one third of a nation we think they vividly sum up the need for better housing but what about the remedy what is the city of new york doing to make home sweet home more than just a name to the one third of the city from january 1st to november 1938 new york city's housing authority and housing department records these achievements demolition of 600 substandard buildings reports 69 163 violations of the housing housing authority starts construction of two new housing projects red hook in brooklyn queensborough and long island city low rent apartments for 22 000 new new yorkers but on the road to better housing for new yorkers stands a formidable barrier they say a man's home is his castle well mine ain't it's a dirty little cold water flat in an old lord tenement the kind they've been talking about tearing down that's a swell idea if they could do it but it seems there's some regulation about how the city can't get federal housing funds if the cost of land is too high so they can't build better houses in the slums they gotta build them somewhere else what good does that do me no land purchased for federal housing projects may cost more than one dollar and fifty cents a square foot a ruling of the federal housing administration a stumbling block in the way of better housing then one brisk afternoon in november brooklyn's red hook area is visited by a distinguished delegation mayor lagartia senator robert f wagner nathan strauss united states housing administrator controller joseph d mcgoldrick and alfred reinstein chairman of the new york city housing authority they are here to inspect the progress of the red hook housing project a slum project begun before the land cost ruling the visitors poke about among the building refuges and the bricks and lumber the reporters watch from a distance then look see what's going on now look over there why is anything to get excited about yeah where a senator and a senator are sitting together on a wooden file maybe they're having a conference but not good all right so have your joke take a picture of me some wait wait no i'd like to know what they're talking about there's some sort of story bro oh they're just past the time of day come over here a minute boys that's right right over your honor watch out jan you'll trip all those timbers i thought you boys would like to know what's been happening here sort of look like a conference yes that's it a conference on a woodpile what's it all about mr mayor it's good news about housing gentlemen with the aid of mr strauss and senator wagner an adjustment has been made on an important housing problem well what do you mean by an adjustment the adjustment was on the recent ruling by mr strauss that land for federal housing projects could not cost more than a dollar and a half a square foot of course you know that slum land is very expensive in this city that meant we couldn't build any new housing projects in the slums well does that mean the city will start some new housing projects soon absolutely in fact we've just decided on two large projects the federal government's going to spend 12 million dollars on one of them and the city will build another that means we're going to be able to put a lot of the people of the slums into livable homes alfred reinstein addresses the people of new york ladies and gentlemen the commissioner of housing 1939 holds great promise to new construction and rehousing in new york city private industry is building or has projected even a greater volume of residential construction than was contemplated and was completed in 1938 we must insist upon sound construction to protect the investment often the life savings of the small homeowner and to avoid the rapid deterioration of neighborhoods public housing for the lowest income group is underway on a great scale these projects must be well and economically built if plans for the elimination of slums and for rehousing slum dwellers are to succeed that means arizona saranac or a place like that well doc i i don't have any money but you'll be glad to know then i'm sure that i've already arranged with the city authorities for hospitalization it'd be silly to tell you not to worry so so i won't but she'll turn out all right the ambulance came and took me to the hospital i was there for two months daddy used to come and see me all the time and he said he wished he could send me to arizona that's a far away place but the doctor says it ain't it isn't necessary he says they can take care of me right here in the year i don't cross no more now and they're gonna let me out of the hospital soon and i'm going home they're even gonna let me go back to school would you like to see the new doll i got for christmas the department of hospitals in 1938 waged an aggressive campaign against tuberculosis among the major achievements of the program was the start of construction of the new tribe borough tuberculosis hospital in cool which will provide 500 beds and in addition at riverside hospital which will provide people facilities for 500 patients and new wards to house 110 beds 1938 sees the addition of another significant chapter in the history of new york city department of hospitals it is the story of a remarkable combination of science and of humanity this is donaldson the doctor call them again you must this means a woman's life i'll try them doctor there is no answer then call the samson agency they may have some donors available i did call them doctor they say they have no passport donors available then phone doors are cooperative then hurry yes sir how is she in this any change dr gracie says she can't last more than a few hours unless she has the blood transfusion that doesn't give us any time yes yes have they got him they have a donor type four tell them to send him over here immediately but it will be at least two hours before they can locate him that's too late all right tell them to make it as quickly as possible god it isn't fair it isn't right that blood life-giving blood would be a matter of dollars and cents hello yes yes i'll tell doctor what is it it's dr grayson he says to come up immediately she's thinking fast blood transfusions the old way delays of hours delays that often meant death this year new york city's hospital in the potland adapts a novel method of providing transfusion economically and without loss of precious time you want to see me dr heeter yes it's about your brother there's no danger is he he's all right oh of course it's not a serious operation but i want to talk to you about something else now you're a strong healthy looking young man yes there isn't any for you and me doc i guess not well the city is giving your brother hospitalization now how'd you like to help the city and others like your brother how can i do that by giving us some of your blood you mean my brother's going to need a transfusion possibly if he does we'll have the blood ready immediately if not then we'll put your blood in the bank in the bank yes and this is the bank that pays interest in human lives it's a blood bank here will you take a look at our deposits bottles of blood ready at an instant's notice for any emergency it's stored in this refrigerator chemically treated so that it will last now this blood has all been donated by friends and relatives of our patients that's a swell idea now what do you say young fellow want to become one of our depositors sure thing doc it's an obligation of course sure thing doc you can put my account down right now the hospital for tuberculosis the blood bank plan these are only two of the many advances made in 1938 by the department of hospitals for the rest of the story we refer you to the commissioner of hospitals ladies and gentlemen dr s s goldwater when you think of the department of hospitals remember this the city of new york is it is unselfishly interested in every sick person who needs hospital care and who cannot afford to pay for it an appropriate motto for the department of hospitals would be all for one and one for all in five short years under mayor laguardia's administration new hospital wards holding seven thousand beds have been authorized and most of them have been built in its new welfare hospital the city has the world's finest hospital for the care of persons suffering from long continued illnesses more than 4 000 doctors serve in the city's 27 hospitals without pay and these doctors are constantly discovering new and better ways of treating disease 95 of all the patients admitted that city hospitals are cured or substantially relieved at willard parker the hospital for contagious diseases that in the old days would have been called the pest house the recovery rate last year reached the miraculous peak of 99 the hospital department of the city of new york reflects the generosity of our great city and is a symbol of the people's will to health and happiness new hospitals new methods of hospitalization toward a healthier city new york advances steel and concrete crowds and subways work that's new york green lawns trees and lakes play that's new york too i remember the days when they used to call golf a rich man's game but not anymore as soon as march comes around i'll be at it again a subway ride up to vancorten and i'll shoot 18 holes on the municipal links i guess that's almost as good as belonging to one of those fancy westchester there are no sidewalks are sizzling hot as well to be able to cool off at one of those municipal swimming pools weekends we have regular vacation at one of those clean new beaches like jacob reese or orchard beach shuffleboard deck tennis and then a dip in the surf to top it off gosh i used to worry about the kids playing in the streets speeding cars in the neighborhood it's easy for children to go wrong in the slums then mary and i found out about the neighborhood playground jack and sally go there every day after school we know they're safe now i guess i'll never go to switzerland or any of those places you see in the movies but central park in summer is nice joe and i like to play tennis sometimes to go rowing on the lake where the funny pelicans are and at night when the stars are out we like to sit under the elms in the mall and listen to the goldman band so uncle mike gives me a bike for my birthday so what good does it do me mama won't let me ride it in the streets says it's too dangerous gosh it was tough until they opened up that bike path in queens boy it's a peach you can ride for five miles and there ain't any danger because they don't let any cars in it's only for riding bicycles one of the greatest recreational centers in the world that's new york city with a park department that gives the seven and a half million tennis golf riding swimming baseball music and miles of parks and beaches that takes youngsters off crowded streets gives them play centers and here's the general superintendent alan r jennings with his report of some of the department highlights of 1938 the past year shows a more than three-fold increase in recreational facilities over 1933 it records greatly increased use of all park facilities the past year marks the completion of the the reclamation of the hudson river waterfront the past year saw the finish of the job of making the site ready for the great new york world's fair of 1939 working with many other city state and federal agencies we have constructed permanent improvements costing 50 million dollars for the great flushing meadow park which will follow the fair but most gratifying has been the improvement in child welfare in the past five years 1938 had less than 4 000 arrests for juvenile delinquency 1933 more than 6 000 in 1938 there were less than 7 000 children who sustained injuries in street accidents in 1933 over 12 000 the answer the children are using the playgrounds so i am happy for this opportunity to join with the mayor and other officials of the city administration in wishing you all the best of all possible new years and the hope that everyone will enjoy to the fullest the many opportunities for recreation which have been made available and that your patronage will make the coming year one of the most successful on records in our annals a happy new year from robert moses and his department of parks a healthier happier city through recreation new york advances the municipal role call of achievement time does not permit the sounding of all advances by the various departments serving the city in detail and so briefly we call this role of achievement civil service commission paul j kern president citation for making new york city civil service 99.44 pure from political spoils for a merit system record unmatched by any city county or state government in the united states out of 120 000 jobs less than 500 are still appointed department of correction austin h mccormick commissioner citation for a correctional program which is consonant with the best and most modern of proper prison management for prisons which are no longer politically controlled and gangster dominated for the humane but properly disciplined emphasis placed on helping the accidental youthful offender department of docs john mckenzie commissioner citation for the increased efficiency of the municipal ferries and the addition of three new boats for the excellent regulation of the foreign trade zone at stapleton staten island and finally for the improvements on floyd bennett airport and the construction of the north beach airport which will make new york's airports second to none department of investigation william b herlands commissioner citation for eliminating dishonest employees and chiseling contractors for saving the city millions by investigations into the election law administration sales tax and real estate for its king's county investigation aiming for decency and honesty in criminal justice law department william c chandler corporation council citation for saving the city over six and one half million dollars in settlement of the two largest claims against the city pending since before 1934 the bergen beach condemnation award and the brooklyn ash removal company case department of licenses paul morse commissioner citation for protecting the buyer of second-hand automobiles by establishing rules regulating the sale of used cars for protecting legitimate merchants by eliminating the special sales racketeers with their fraudulent fire sales going out of business sales and the like for generally making a reality of the slogan a license protects you department of markets william fellows morgan jr commissioner citation for the achievements of its bureau of weights and measures in protecting consumers against short weight misrepresentation and other frauds for mrs gannon's daily radio reports over wnyc on the best food buys of the day for the construction of enclosed retail markets where consumers can buy wholesale food at low prices in clean and attractive surroundings for these and for all its other activities in making the consumer's dollar go further department of public works irving b.a hughie commissioner for the successful assimilation of its new duties prescribed by the new city charter for the excellent care and maintenance of the bridges and public buildings of the city and for the repaving of the lower part of queensborough and manhattan bridge with seven ton steel concrete slabs without once causing a traffic congestion an indication of its service department of purchase department of purchase russell for an excellent departmental record which grows with time and for substantial savings to taxpayers by practically eliminating the old monopoly controlling the market for perishable foods department of sanitation william f carey commissioner citation for developing the procedure by which the city disposes of its waste material by scientific reclamation of mosquito breeding marshlands converting those swamps into usable parkland for modernizing over 75 percent of the department's total equipment and for putting on the streets closed modern numatic tired collection trucks board of transportation john h delaney chairman citation for the great strides made in building the new 6th avenue subway and for the construction work on the extension to the fulton street subway in brooklyn and the queen's boulevard extension to serve the opening of the world's fair these records and the administration of america's greatest city were compiled during the year 1938 we inscribed them on this role of achievement new york advances you have an inkling now of the daily life of your city government the mayor and his commissioners are on duty 24 hours every day the purpose of your government is to make is to make life safe secure healthy and happy for the seven million people of the city of new york an administration that asks for no praise an administration that invites criticism an administration that can withstand all sorts of political opposition new york advances on a happy new year new york advances in the american way to achieve american ends this afternoon on the threshold of the new year the mayor of new york with many of his commissioners has presented an accounting of activity during the past year and now we look forward to 1939 to the work that is yet to come to the triumphs that are yet to be achieved forward and onward to 1939 to life to liberty and to the pursuit of happiness new york advancesousse lives on the leading end of the night brick every day the kapit The music on this program was performed by the Police Department Orchestra, Captain Eugene LeBard conducting, and the Fire Department Glee Club Fireman Guerin leader. Scenes from one third of a nation were presented by the courtesy of the Federal Theater Project. The song, Sunday in the Park, is from the review Pins and Needles. For the benefits of New Yorkers who were not able to listen to this program at this time, and who would like to hear it again, New York Advances will be repeated tomorrow afternoon at 2.15 by means of electrical transcription. So call your fellow citizens and tell them about New York Advances. Remember the time repeating tomorrow afternoon at 2.15. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. New York State's own station WNYC, in a city where more than... long-hearted야w for a Panic Art Manager will be prepared for the results of New York Azhar Storm Latin Alcoholics. Remember the School of Neckers, along the way! Do identify since it became aterminousous station WNYC... And finally, it says going to be able to choose a new medicine and should not add next to the way that the coating rises were passed until the artificial biblioth