Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, will discuss with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is John F. Mahoney, Commissioner of the Department of Health and Director of the Public Health Division of Civil Defense. And now to introduce this, the third of these reports on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. I would like to make it clear to our listening audience that this series of broadcasts in which key members of the Civil Defense Committee and I discuss defense preparations are for the purpose of informing the public of what is being done in their behalf. We are trying in this manner to enlighten our citizens, not to arouse them. I am purposely emphasizing this point. We are bringing these interviews to you, the listening public, to let you know what we are attempting to do in our program of civil defense. In other words, we are reporting our activities step by step. If you have any suggestions or questions, send them in, and we will be happy to have them. And in case of questions, we will try to answer them. In our first broadcast, I discussed with Dr. Marcus T. Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals and Chief of the Emergency Medical Division in the Civil Defense Organization, the plans that are in process for the treatment of those injured in the case of any attack upon New York City. Now we are to hear from Dr. John F. Mahoney on those aspects of civil defense which he will direct. Dr. Mahoney, will you tell us how the Department of Health fits into the Civil Defense Organization and the work that has been assigned the Emergency Public Health Division of Civil Defense? As you know, Commissioner Wallander, the primary function of the Department of Health is to prevent disease and not to treat the sick. We immunize people, and particularly children, against certain diseases. We control sanitation and the wholesomeness of the city's food supply. We advise the public on how to fight disease. In the event of an enemy attack upon New York City, many of these activities would be fitted in to the defense program, and scores of doctors and hundreds of nurses in the health department would be made available immediately to the Emergency Medical Division for the care and the treatment of the injured. Each of the 23 health centers and more than 100 child health stations and clinics operated by the Department of Health could also become casualty aid stations. Well, what preparations have you made to carry out the plans you have just outlined, Doctor? We are ready to work hand in hand with the Civil Defense Medical Emergency Division, and our district health officers are being prepared to set up casualty aid stations in each health district. We have outlined a borough-by-borough system of organization. If disaster strikes and communications are interrupted, everyone will know exactly how they are to integrate into the Emergency Medical Division and how to proceed. Now, Doctor, that sounds very good. That covers the medical coordination of your department and your division of the Civil Defense Organization. But you have a large force of inspectors. Will they, too, fit into the Civil Defense program? They will indeed, Commissioner. We have two large groups of inspectors. One group is regularly concerned with matters of sanitation. The second is concerned with food and drugs. Both groups are made up of men and women with sound training and vast experience in their special fields. Immediately after an attack, our food and drug inspectors will check on the safety of food storage and supplies. For instance, a situation like the following may arise. There might be a large quantity of meat and other perishable foods in a cold storage plant. And because of the disaster, the power to refrigerate the food would be cut off. Unless something was done, that food would spoil. Our inspectors could tell the welfare division that food from that plant must be used at once before it spoils. Such action would be important because at any one time we have only a few days' supply of perishable food on hand in the city. Our sanitary inspectors will check on other health hazards and problems, such as the safety of water supplies, and they will work with the public works emergency division on safe sewage disposal. Now, now, Dr. Mahoney, you have told us how the regular staff of the Department of Health would function in an emergency situation. You are preparing to do more than that, aren't you, at this time? We are. Should there be an attack upon New York City, before the wounded and injured can be treated and cared for, they must be rescued. That is, they must be picked up from the streets, dug out of debris, and transported to casualty aid stations. Then they must be moved on to hospitals or to other treatment centers. But in the event of an atomic attack, there is one task that must be done even before rescue work can be undertaken. Before a rescue squad moves into a devastated area, it is necessary to determine if that area is contaminated with dangerous levels of radioactivity. The Public Health Division of the Civil Defense Organization will have a radiation monitoring team attached to each rescue squad. Each monitoring team will be equipped with radiation detection apparatus. It will be the job of these monitoring teams to go into the devastated areas ahead of the actual rescue squads to determine if radioactivity is present in significant quantities. Well, Doctor, does that mean that the rescue squads will not be able to work at all if there is any radiation? No, Commissioner Walner. Men can work without serious harm or injury to themselves when there is some radiation present. But as the amount of radiation increases, the danger naturally increases. A monitoring team might find, for instance, that while there is some radiation present in a particular area, it would not begin to do harm until a person is exposed to it for more than two hours. In a case like that, our monitoring team would tell the rescue squad, in effect, you can come in here and work, but not for longer than two hours. Then you must get out. If there were no radiation present, the monitoring team would simply give the rescuing squad the green light. Well, Doctor, a few minutes ago, you spoke of radiation detection. That is what sort of apparatus you would use. Do you mean the Geiger counters would be used? Geiger counters are used at present for measuring radiation, and our monitoring teams would use either the Geiger counter or some equally satisfactory instrument. How many radiation monitors or Geiger detection units do you estimate will be necessary, and how will you recruit, organize, and train them? We now estimate that, properly to cover the city, we will have to have from 500 to 800 trained men. Each man will use a Geiger counter or an equally satisfactory instrument. Every one of them will be trained in the operation and the reading of his radiation detection instrument. All of these men who will serve on the radiation detection teams will be briefed and trained by an advisory committee of physicists and engineers. We plan to recruit the first group of monitoring teams from among the science teachers of our high schools, colleges, and universities. We will have training courses for the team, where they will be taught how to handle their instruments, how to read them, and be trained for everything else that is necessary to do an effective job of radiation detection. You see, in choosing science teachers, we will have men with basic understanding of the factors involved in radioactivity. Thus, they will start with a good foundation upon which the training for the detailed work of radiation detection will be based. Well, how will they be organized, Doctor? On a borough basis, sir. By that I mean that each borough will have its own organization of monitor team who will be ready to work with the organizations in other boroughs, if that is possible, or they will be ready to work quite independently, if that becomes necessary. That work of organization is necessary because we cannot know exactly what situation we will face, and we must have our organization flexible enough to meet any possible situation. Each borough will have its own headquarters with a laboratory that can test, check, and calibrate our radiation measuring instruments or Geiger counters. Such instruments are delicate and require careful handling and checking. Well, Doctor, the monitor teams will do more than work with the rescue squads, won't they? Working with the Police Department Emergency Division's light rescue squads will be their first task. They will also cooperate with the fire department to safeguard firemen entering stricken areas. In addition, they will also work with the heavy-duty rescue squads of the Public Works Emergency Division. These squads, as you know, will handle demolition, clearing of streets and damaged areas, utility, highway, sewer, and water main repairs. Their job will then be the same as it was with the rescue squads to determine if radiation is present and if there is, and if so, the extent thereof. Well, when Dr. Kogel made his report, he pointed out that in case of disaster, there will be a vast need for blood. You recall, Dr. Mahoney, that Dr. Kogel estimated that between 40,000 and 50,000 severe burn cases might have to be handled at one time, and that in addition to many other things, each severely burned person might require as much as 40 pints of whole blood. Is the Department of Health and the Public Health Division of Civil Defense working on that problem now? Yes, Commissioner Walner. Right now, the Department of Health is working with the American Red Cross on the problem of blood supplies. Dr. Samuel Frant, first deputy commissioner of the Department of Health, has been designated by Amaro Dwyer as the head of the committee to recruit blood donors. Further, we are in a position to type the blood of every person in New York City and to supply information on blood types to the organization which will prepare individual identification tags or disks. Well, thank you, Dr. Mahoney, for your report. I'm sure it gave us a great insight to what you're doing. Let me repeat, if our listeners have any suggestions or questions, send them in. We'll be glad to have them, and we will be especially glad to answer any questions. We are anxious to give the facts because we know the facts will eradicate panic and hysteria. You have been listening to the third in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner John F. Mahoney of the Department of Health, Director of the Public Health Unit of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, Commissioner Wallander will discuss with the Commissioner of Public Works, Frederick A. Zermulin, the work being done in the Public Works Division of the Civilian Defense Organization. Be sure to join us, then, next Tuesday at the same time when the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.