Taylor, the Slipton, distinguished visitors, ladies and gentlemen. Again this year, we join with the men and women whose personal interests are with the work of our harbor, our shipping, in celebrating one of our most important days, Maritime Day. When you look back over the history of the city to that far away day, when the original Dutch fort and a few straggling houses in this part of our city was the only thing of that type of substantial building in these parts. And look at our city today. The growth is so enormous over these few hundred years that it might well bring to our minds this question. What is and has been the secret of this extraordinary growth? Well, I think we will agree that you wouldn't have the Dutch fort or you wouldn't have the homes if you didn't have one gift of nature in this beautiful harbor of ours. And when you consider that a whole nation has spread from the straggling houses on the Atlantic seaboard all the way to the Pacific and now has achieved worldwide strength and responsibility, again we must call attention to a basic thing around which the beginnings were made and which is still in its final result of great importance to our nation, New York Harbor. Now during the campaign before I was elected mayor, and many times since then, especially a year ago at this Maritime Day celebration, I call attention to the fact that while we have had a beautiful harbor, while we have had beautiful worldwide water routes, while we have had splendid communications internally, some by water, some by rail, now add to that some by air, while we have had great business enterprises with merchandise to ship and with merchandise to receive, there is one important part of the program that has not kept pace with the world's needs, and that is that rim around our waterfront, our docks, our dock approaches, and the warehousing facilities for what is the business of the nation and the city. You might well ask me, what have I done about this all-important question during the year and a half that I've been at City Hall? You have a right to ask that. The citizens of the city who realize the importance of the harbor have a right to ask, what has the administration done? As you know, we found on taking office in 1946 that the Department of Docks and Ferries had been wedded to the Department of Aviation so that you had a Department of Marine and Aviation with all the emphasis on the work on the aviation side and with not inadequate attention to the waterfront, to the docks, piers, approaches. Now, the first thing to do, in my opinion, was to separate the two activities. And after a good deal of struggling with Idlewild Airport and its financing, we finally, a few months ago, got that over onto the Port Authority for completion, which opened the door for action on the waterfront. recently, as you might have noticed in the newspapers, I appointed an advisory committee of outstanding gentlemen in the business, in the industry, and I gratefully acknowledge their acceptance of the assignment which I gave, and particularly, the chairman of that committee, Mr. Frank Taylor. Now, Mr. Taylor and his committee accepted willingly the job of advising me on the next step. of course, we all realize, ladies and gentlemen, that to do a decent job on our harbor will cost at least $235 million. How soon that can be done is a question. Certainly, the big part of the job is digging up the $235 million. If we were to approach that out of the available revenues of the city, I'm afraid it will be a long, long time, and I would not bring to you today any great message of immediate, of hope of doing the job in the immediate future. But I'm happy to say to you that it does not depend entirely upon the city's financial ability to finance this enterprise. The World Trade Corporation set up during the last legislature under the chairmanship of Mr. Winsor-Baldrich has been talking about getting into this field. And we of the administration have been discussing it with them. Now, we finally came to the day last week when we had a proposal from the World Trade Corporation, which I requested Mr. Aldrich to give me in writing so that we could take it up at a meeting of the Board of Estimate, which he did. And today, the Board of Estimate, just before I left City Hall, adopted a resolution which I shall read to you now as the first step in a, what I believe is a necessary improvement of the waterfront. I'll read the resolution. Resolved that the plan of the World Trade Corporation dated February 4, 1947, and presented to the mayor on the date of May 14, 1947 by the chairman of the corporation, is deemed by the Board of Estimate to be sufficiently meritorious for the World Trade Corporation to proceed with engineering and expert surveys in collaboration with the mayor's advisory committee, the cost of which surveys will be paid for by the World Trade Corporation from funds placed at its disposal by the state of New York. And be it further resolved that the following major points, among others, shall be considered in the aforesaid surveys. One, the verification of the financial data on which the World Trade Corporation program is based. Two, the testing and analysis of the extent to which new monies may be wisely and profitably spent in improving the piers, docks, warehouses, and other trade facilities in New York. Three, the investigation of the type of contract or lease best suited to protect the city's interest under such plan. Four, the full protection of the city's investment, interest, and amortization requirements on city debt, on the existing city debt, and any other interests of the city in its properties. And be it further resolved that it is the desire of this board that all city officials and agencies furnish such aid and information as may be required in the carrying on of the surveys herein before referred to. And be it further resolved that the results of the surveys are to be submitted to the Board of Estimate for its consideration on or before August 31, 1947, and be it further resolved that this resolution shall in no wise be regarded as a commitment or approval in advance by the Board of Estimate of the details of any definitive plan or recommendation resulting from the surveys. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my report to you today as the first step in the rehabilitation of this waterfront has been taken. We are now in a position to say to the World Trade Corporation, investigate what has to be done. Tell us how you're going to finance it. Tell us what the city has to do to bring that about. And if we can agree with that, then, of course, we would be ready for an immediate agreement that could get the work underway. Now, of course, if there is any question about the agreement and there is an impossibility of completing an agreement, something that I cannot at this time foresee, the next step is the city has to do the job itself. We will know long before the fall of the year what that decision will be. And I can assure you that before the first of the year, in one way or the other, either the World Trade or the city itself, we will be underway with a large, adequate program of rehabilitating our waterfront. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the message I have to bring you today. I'm happy to bring it to you. I have, of course, a sentimental feeling amounting to an affection which is of long standing for the waterfront, for the ships that come and the ships that go. But this is not a sentimental matter. This is a matter of dollars and cents and bread and butter to the city of New York. It's too important to be neglected and I believe that before my administration is finished we will have shown a fine program well underway to rehabilitate the farm. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.