Mr. Metzman, Mr. Snelly, General Eisenhower, ladies and gentlemen, as mayor of the city of New York, I welcome the leaders of business, labor, industry, who have gathered in our city to honor the new addition of this great old train. The 20th Century Limited for 46 years has been a lifeline between Chicago and New York. This train has been highly important in the commerce between the two cities. And in those 46 years, it has covered the astounding total of 52 million high-speed miles. This nightly mission of linking New York and Chicago and its unbelievable on-time record has made the century an American tradition. We in New York have always been proud of the century, and we now share a pride in the new form in which it appears. On behalf of the people of the city of New York, I congratulate the New York Central System and the entire railroad industry upon this example of high standards of achievement and progress. It is this kind of technological progress that keeps America in the forefront of the nations. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor O'Dwyer, for your expression of a sentiment which is at once a satisfaction to all of us in the railroad industry and an inspiration to carry on in the tradition which you have so eloquently cited. The person upon whom it is now my pleasure to call has made New York his home for a short period, much shorter than Mayor O'Dwyer. But nevertheless, we believe he definitely belongs at this ceremony. We of the railroads feel that in a very real sense we serve with him and helped him in his glorious performance during World War II. And with the humble pride that troops must feel when honored by the presence of their leader, we welcome him here today. His experience has been broad, his achievements beyond encompassment in a brief introduction. It is now my privilege to present General Dwight D. Eisenhower. Mr. Metzman, Mr. Mayor, Miss Lilly, ladies and gentlemen, just to be here today to witness this important event in the history of transportation is of itself a great personal privilege. But for me there is additional satisfaction in the opportunity here afforded to pay a sincere tribute to the American railroads and to the people who make them run. During the recent war I was well aware of the splendid job those roads and the men and women who worked them did in moving the personnel and the materiel of war across our continent toward their worldwide destinations. In a much more direct way, I and the command with which I served had reason every day to appreciate the loyal and efficient service rendered by the railroad men in the transportation corps, thousands of them in the same theater of war where I was stationed. Their magnificent efforts were essential to the victories of our fighting men. Their skill and devotion did much to give those victories to the Allied peoples months ahead of the most optimistic estimates in 1941 and 42. Frequently, the timetable of our offenses was written by these railroad men, turned soldiers. After the Allied landings in North Africa in 1942, transport was a most critical problem. Roads were few and miserable. Trucks to operate over them were at the beginning so scarce as to require rationing. We possessed a single track, railroad winding through the mountains from Casablanca toward the front. But its daily capacity was only 900 tons. A dribblet of supply with which to meet the flood of arms and metal the enemy was pouring into Tunisia from Sicily and from Italy. The success of the campaign was seriously jeopardized by our inability to move men, supplies and equipment. Then the men of the Transportation Corps took over our rickety rail line and its battered equipment. Without the addition of a single boxcar or engine, they raised the daily delivery from 900 to 3,000 tons. From this, they went on to constantly greater accomplishments. What they could have done, had they possessed a train like this new 20th century, is beyond my imagination. That sort of pace they maintained through the Mediterranean and European campaigns. Until, in a final magnificent gesture of American capacity for the impossible, they bridged the Rhine in ten days. Building a bridge the Germans would have taken months to duplicate, and across it rode American locomotives and trains into the heart of Germany. All that is history. Nevertheless, the spirit of the men that the Transportation Corps manifested, the command they exercised over the tools of their trade, from mammoth locomotives and mile-long trains to ingenious tricks that eliminated bottlenecks, these are still American assets. But the spirit of a nation alone is not enough to preserve its position or even its freedom. Physical and inventive strength in its industrial structure, able to produce and deliver at all times all that is needed for the security and betterment of our people. That too is essential. Beyond that is demanded the will never to be content with the imperfect. Always to be seeking improvement and an increase in the ability to do every job well. Consequently, I am highly pleased to be here to witness a concrete evidence of the railroads industry's response to this twin necessity. For the 20th century is more than merely a train. It symbolizes the forward-looking attitude, the daring, and the vision that have characterized our country and its people in all their undertakings. Indeed, it is a symbol of something even greater. It is a shining example of what can be accomplished by the partnership of ingenuity, brains, management, and labor, when freely and voluntarily associated together for the accomplishment of a definite purpose. I earnestly believe that you see here before you today the future of America. Our security and our prosperity do not rest exclusively in the patriotism, the intelligence, the moral sturdiness of our people, nor in any amount of arm might that we may mobilize. These must always be supplemented by industrial sufficiency and efficiency. And all must be bound together by the same sense of partnership that springs from a common devotion to the nation. And a common realization that only what is good for the United States as a whole can possibly be good for any individual or group of individuals within that nation. I am proud to pay a soldier's tribute to the men and women, all of them, in the industry that made possible the new 20th century. Their accomplishments in this one field typifies what we can do throughout the length and breadth of this great land. What we will certainly do as long as we combine by intelligent cooperation our entire array of human and material assets to the benefit of America. Thank you very much. Thank you, General Eisenhower, for your presence and for your remarks. I am sure they will be held by all of us as a highly prized remembrance of this occasion. And now to assist us in the formal inaugural of the new 20th century, we have with us another famous guest, who has distinguished herself by her ability to bring laughter into the hearts of people wherever she goes. The great star of countless musical successes, Miss Beatrice Lilly.