The introduction of our guest presents a difficult problem, for there are many reasons why the American Library Association sought the privilege of having Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt at this conference. She is one of our authors, and hence one of our friends. She lives with us in our libraries. We know her as writer, editor, newspaper woman. We recognize her as an influential educator and a great humanitarian. But we have invited her today as an American citizen and as a citizen of the world. She exemplifies the citizen of the future that many of us are striving to become. She broadens our theme of the conference by discussing how books become basic tools in international relationships. Mrs. Roosevelt is one of the delegates of the United States to the United Nations General Assembly and has held this position since 1946. She is the United States member on the Commission of Human Rights, and as we know, has done much to develop the Charter on Human Rights. She is a stateswoman who thinks in terms of people. It is particularly fitting that she comes to us at this conference because we find that she was also on the program of the American Library Association Conference when it met in New York in 1937. Mrs. Roosevelt, the members of the American Library Association and their friends are honored by your presence. Members of the American Library Association, I am very happy to be with you today. I feel that I really have no title to speak to all of you, except perhaps that I have been with the Junior Literary Guild reading children's books for a great many years. So I do know some of the problems from the children's angle that come into the libraries. All over the country. But I was really not going to talk to you today so much about the problems of the libraries in our country, as I was going to try to tell you a little bit from the observations and impressions that a very hurried trip which I made last winter left with me about the problems in the world which I think can be and are affected by what we can do with books. Now you know that just now there's quite a concerted attack on UNESCO. And I would be the last person to say that anything in the international field which was done was perfect. In fact, it's all so new that I always look upon it as more or less experimental. And I'm quite sure that some of the early projects undertaken by UNESCO were experimental and perhaps were not very good. I think the one thing one must look for is whether things are becoming better and more useful. Now I've had simply a bombardment of letters lately saying, when will UNESCO be ratified? Well, of course, it's not a treaty. And I don't know what people really think UNESCO is. I've had the most extraordinary mail on it. Sometimes they talk about it as though it was a place. And then at other times, I had one lady write in the other day and say, what will happen to us when it becomes mandatory that we accept UNESCO's dictums on our public school system? Well, again, I gasp and I wonder what's been said. But I begin to think that the real trouble is that very few people in our communities really know that one of the main projects at present that UNESCO is trying to undertake and to make pilot projects in different parts of the world are the projects on fundamental education. the effort to wipe out illiteracy as far as possible in areas of the world where illiteracy is holding people back. Even, for instance, if you're going to work in agriculture, you must be able to read the directions that are sent you. And if you are going to use books, you must be able to read. You can't use them otherwise. And so, it seems to me that it would be a very good thing if, in the interest of the use of books, we tried to show people and get people to know throughout our nation what actually are the main lines of the projects being carried out by UNESCO today. Now, it is true that they allow scientists to meet and different groups of people to meet and to talk freely. And I don't know, because I haven't attended all the meetings. Last winter, I attended one or two meetings when they were trying in Paris when we were sitting in the General Assembly and UNESCO was trying to find out how they could get a group together to write something on human rights which would be helpful throughout the world. And the only thing that I remember in that session which I attended that struck me particularly was that they were all too learned. They were all using words. They said they were going to try and get together a book which would be useful for high school age and college age. And I assure you that I've been quite a long while now working on this problem of human rights. And there were a great many words used that day that I had to ask what they were trying to say. What did they mean? So I did make the suggestion that like so many other things they try to get away from a specialized vocabulary. That if they wanted to reach great groups of people throughout the world they must use words which were simple enough for the average person to understand them. But aside from that I really did not find that the group was saying anything that seemed to me very extraordinary in a subversive way or even in new ideas of any kind. So that I did not come away with any sense that I was associating with the frightening people who might upset the concepts of right and wrong for instance. And I do think that it would be helpful if we tried to get the people in our communities throughout this country to really know a little more about what is being done and so that they would have some facts and not be just carried away by things that are said by people whom I have come to the conclusion are very confused themselves. I think there is a great deal said these days by people who themselves are just as confused as possible. And so for that reason I make this plea to all of you to get people to learn certain facts because I think that is really vitally important. Now as I went hurriedly through different countries I was struck by the fact that one of the things we really need more than anything else is to be able to get across to other countries a better understanding of what we in the United States are really like what we think what we feel what we do and in return we need to know more on every level about other countries. I was asked all kinds of questions the curiosity about the United States is encouraging but also rather frightening because you realize that this country democracy has become almost a symbol a symbol of what democracy really means and whenever anything occurs that is questionable and of course whenever there is a failure in democratic processes here or something happens which can be exploited against democracy against the United States we may expect that it will be fully exploited and the result will be not just is that something which the people of the United States believe in or don't believe in or did or did not do but is that what is meant by democracy that was asked me over and over again in connection with various questions that were in people's minds and then I found that everywhere I went I was asked what about the treatment of minorities in the United States everywhere I never had a press conference I never sat down with a group of people I never went to a university and sat down with students that that question was not asked me sooner or later what about the treatment of minorities in the United States it's tied up with a feeling that I think we should be very conscious of we have not been a colonial power but in areas of the world where colonial powers have only lately perhaps relinquished to the people themselves their government we have been over a long period of years a strong commercial power and one of the things that we find today a little bit difficult in our relationships is the fact that we are classed with colonial powers and that colonial powers from their very essence have treated peoples almost always since they were subject peoples with a certain amount of consension the result of course is bitterness the result is a great desire today to show that now they are free and they are equal and there is no more to be any question of that equality but the resentment doesn't get wiped out right away and you will find that that is one of the things which we if we are really to prove that democracy means what it says and does stand for human rights and freedoms that we really have to prove it by deeds words aren't enough and it will take a little time to wipe out the past and so we have to really try to use every method that we can to educate people as to what democracy does mean and stand for and what we really believe in and stand for I was interested for instance to hear from someone who made a tour in the Scandinavian countries last year that the book which had just been republished and was being read by people as being relevant to the race situation in the United States today was Uncle Tom's Cabin it had just been republished and was being read everywhere and the person who wrote me about it who was making a tour speaking said that they were perfectly powerless because they could say a great many things but everyone was reading Uncle Tom's Cabin and all they could say was well that is not what is happening today but they said but here it is it's written there's something very compelling about the written words you know when it's written it must be true and I happen to think that books and magazines and newspapers are extraordinarily important because what comes to us by radio what comes to us by television what comes to us even in the movies we see once and frequently we don't take it all in or we forget but what we have in books magazines and newspapers which we read and refer to which either confirm what we have seen or disprove it that is something that stays with us because we keep it and we go back to it all the time and it acts as a reminder if we forget it is what stays with you and the improvement the increase in literacy in the areas of the world will make that written word more and more important and I can't tell you really how interested I was for instance to see what the US information service libraries meant to people in different places throughout India for instance they were being used tremendously and one or two places where they had expected to have one opened and it hadn't yet come about I found great dissatisfaction that it hadn't come much more quickly into being and a lack of understanding that of course to establish library and US information service center means personnel and appropriation and accumulation of materials and so forth but no reason why it shouldn't happen quickly once you decided that you wanted it and I was both encouraged and a little worried by the fact that I don't think here we realize quite how useful and how important those centers are in spreading knowledge about the United States and how really important it is that we should have there the right personnel that was something which I was very much impressed with everywhere you know we ordinarily think about our representatives in foreign countries primarily as being the diplomatic or consular people who head up our offices and I came to the conclusion that every single individual who goes from the United States into any part of the world carries the responsibility of being a diplomatic representative and can't get away from it because every act is watched every opinion is listened to and you can't be light and thrust off the responsibility because the responsibility is with you every minute now for instance I'll tell you a little incident I was taken by some young Indian women who were doing some work which is new to them in the slums of a great city and it's not been a very long time since Indian women and women in Pakistan have those who were fairly well or led very sheltered lives they did not come in contact with the ordinary situations and the bad situations in their cities now because of the problem of displaced people that they've had they have seen a need and come out in a very remarkable way to meet it and they're doing wonderful work and things are being done in slum areas which were never done before and women are being encouraged more and more to take part in the life of the country but it's not easy for them and we mustn't think that it is easy and this story was told me by at least 30 different women they took an American woman to see their work now I'm sure the American woman was not to blame for her reaction she should have been prepared someone should have told her what to expect and evidently nobody did but she found herself having to pass sitting along the side of the road where she was going in and where she would have to pass very close a whole row of beggars most of whom had leprosy and the hands held out to her without fingers the faces were eaten away and she took one look and she turned to the women with her and she said oh I couldn't think of going in there that's the most horrible thing I ever saw I couldn't think of staying I'm going home and she went well it had a very bad effect needless to say now I don't blame her because we don't prepare people we send them out into the world and we don't tell them what they are probably going to have to meet but I think that's one of the things that we should do it's one of the things which more and more we should do because more and more as a people we travel and I don't care whether we go as tourists or to take a job or to work in an embassy or a consular office or in a travel agency or with some business or our husbands go to do that sort of thing we are ambassadors and what we do is influential in what people think of the United States and its people and above all of democracy because we stand as the example of democracy before the world and there is another thing that I would like to say to you because you have great influence over people and that is we must not underestimate our enemy now we believe in democracy we must make democracy live up to its highest ideals and we must see that our country can stand the test of constant watching and that's everybody's job in every city and town and rural area in this nation because it's everywhere that democracy is lived day by day and we must not think that just because we know that communism has no attraction to us that the promises which are made in other areas of the world do not have some attraction now I was particularly struck in India by the fact that when I asked some of the young people and they had a rise in their last election in the communist vote primarily in the south where literacy is higher than it is in other parts of the country and where a good many young people are in universities and one's feeling was that it was primarily not a belief in communism but a dissatisfaction with what they had at the moment and the feeling that perhaps democracy was meeting their needs now we must study what it is that is offered we must remember that it's just promises and that there is no way of finding out what lies back of those promises or how they would be carried out and therefore we are in the position of having to prove what we say and have it seen and they are in the position of being able to rely simply on what they say now there are many ways of fighting this where are we are here and we must not be intimidated into being so afraid that we do not study and work so that we are able to answer the questions as they come to us in other areas of the world. It is through education and knowledge that we will win and not through suppression and ignorance.
