This morning the Municipal Broadcasting System is inaugurating and formally placing in operation a new service, the retransmission of the time signals from the Naval Observatory Station NAA in Arlington, Virginia. When primitive man began to be cognizant of the passage of time, he observed some measures in nature. The succession of light and darkness gave him the day, the variations of the moon gave him the month, and the change of seasons and the varying number of hours of daylight gave him the year. And this morning we are dedicating this service to the advances of civilization and to the people of America's largest city. In the studios of the Municipal Broadcasting System, there have gathered a group of distinguished city and naval dignitaries, among whom are the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable F.H. Legardia, and Admiral Clark B. Woodward. To seal this cooperation between the Navy and the City of New York, may we present Admiral Clark B. Woodward, Commandant of the 3rd Naval District. Ladies and gentlemen of New York, Admiral Woodward. In this workaday world of ours, the question of time, though a most important factor in regulating the affairs of our lives, is such an everyday, matter-of-fact subject that we really pay very little attention to it, except perhaps when we shift the clocks ahead annually to daylight saving time, as we will do two weeks hence. The consequent confusion, particularly in railway schedules, impresses us with this change at the moment, and again subsequently when we shift back to normal time in September. Much scientific research and labor are expended, as well as large amounts of money, on expensive and intricate instruments of precision, to obtain extremely accurate measurements of time, accurate to within one one-hundredth part of a second, particularly for astronomical purposes, including the regulation of clocks and chronometers. We know that the ancient astronomers used sundials, water or sand clocks, and similar time keepers, but they have left no record as to how the exact time of their numerous astronomical phenomena was determined. Yet we find, in checking back, that their calculations were correct to within one minute as far back as the year 140 B.C., a far greater accuracy than was deemed necessary at the time as they omitted the use of minutes. Moreover, as the world progressed in scientific undertakings and knowledge, the demand for more accurate measurement of time became ever greater. The Arabians, having a clear perception of the importance of extreme accuracy, as early as 829 A.D., determined time by the altitude of the sun. This method was adopted in Europe, was not adopted in Europe until 600 years later, 1457. We find clocks driven by weights first used for scientific purposes in 1484, six years before Columbus discovered America, but these were so undependable that astronomers could not place reliance in such instruments until 200 years later, when the application of the pendulum became general. The subsequent gradual development of astronomical instruments has been accompanied by a corresponding development in time keepers. From being untrustworthy, astronomical clocks with pendulums are now made to great perfection, while the invention of the chronometer has placed a portable and equally trustworthy time keeper in the hands of navigators and other travelers for the purpose of determining accurate local time. In order to compare observations made at different places on the Earth's surface, however, it is necessary to take into consideration the question of longitude, as local time varies proportionately with longitude one hour of time corresponding to 15 degrees. The earliest determination of longitude recorded by Marinus of Tyre dates back to the first century. When voyages of discovery began, it was necessary for the pioneer navigators to establish a prime meridian for use as a basis of their calculations. Naturally, the starting point, or meridian, selected varied according to the nationality of the chart makers of those days. It is not until 1884 that an international prime meridian was agreed upon at a conference held in Washington, D.C. At that time, 26 nations, including the United States, adopted the meridian of Greenwich and at the same time established the universal day beginning at Greenwich midnight without, of course, interfering with local time. This proposal was dictated chiefly by the desire to facilitate international telegraph and railway traffic. As the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, it is evident that for places east of the observer, the time is later, while if to the westward, the time is earlier. It can thus be readily understood how vital and necessary standard times have come to rapid transportation systems, such as railroads and aeroplanes. In the United States, where the large extent of the country in longitude makes it impossible to use the time of one meridian, four standard meridians have been adopted, namely the 75th, 90th, 105th, and 120th west of Greenwich, so that clocks showing eastern, central, mountain, or Pacific time are exactly five, six, seven, or eight hours slower than a Greenwich mean time clock. The Naval Observatory at Washington, by observation of the sun and certain fixed stars, computes time for this country, and time signals are broadcast frequently daily by radio and telegraph to all parts of the world. Naval and commercial ships depend upon these broadcasts for the purpose of checking their chronometers, which are used by navigators in accurately fixing their positions at sea. The time signal, which indicates 12 o'clock noon, is usually considered the most important. During the transmission of the time signal, radio stations at Arlington and Annapolis are automatically controlled by wire from the Naval Observatory automatic transmitting device, which was invented by Captain Hellwig, superintendent of the Naval Observatory. The San Francisco signals are controlled by a duplicate device located at Mary Island Navy Yard, which is synchronized with the Washington signal by means of a stroboscopic dial and rotating motor coils. The time signals sent from Honolulu and Balboa Canal Zone are automatic rebroadcasts of the Washington signals. The time signal actually starts five minutes before the hour and consists of dashes during the last ten seconds of each of the five minutes in a distinctive pattern. Radio station WNYC is to be congratulated for the initiative and public interest displayed in the inauguration of a method to broadcast the time signals as accurately as are those sent out from the Naval Observatory. Various commercial communication companies distribute the time signal over land wire, either telegraph or telephone, to nearly every city and town in the country. Some broadcast stations pick it up for rebroadcast from this source, but radio station WNYC has a special receiver which receives the time signal transmission directly from the Navy Radio Washington, thereby slightly reducing the normal error which is necessary when land lines are used in order to properly magnetize their various relays. The time signal which we will shortly hear will have an average error of about two one hundredths of one second, which is not considered excessive for ordinary commercial and navigational purposes. However, for those requiring accuracy to the nth degree, the Naval Observatory distributes correction sheets upon request. These are used by extremely accurate scientists and observers. Thank you. And thank you, Admiral Woodward. Admiral Woodward, you have just heard Admiral Clark B. Woodward, Commandant of the 3rd Naval District, speaking for the United States Navy. We now present the first citizen of New York City, the Honorable F.H. Lugardia. Ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of America's greatest city. Admiral Woodward, accept the thanks, please, to the people of the City of New York for great cooperation, the United States Navy gives and is always ready to give to the City of New York in many, many instances. We are very happy to inaugurate this new service, taking advantage of time signals from the United States Naval Observatory. Now, few people realize, I believe, the many non-military activities or non-naval activities of the United States Navy. Here is one of them. The United States Naval Observatory is a scientific institution. It is an astronomical laboratory devoted to research and pure science. I recall, during my time in Congress, the work of the Naval Observatory and its great contribution to the science, the whole world. I was very much amused, Admiral, to hear about this split-second business. Now, I'm just figuring out that if I can get all the employees of the City of New York to work one second more a day, it would be a net gain of 37 hours every day. Of course, that's pure mathematics. Practically, I don't think it will work that way. They were liable to lose a second in the practical application of the clock for employees of the City. We are very happy to have here Captain Helwig, the commander of the Naval Observatory, who will tell you something about the functions of that great institution. It was a pleasure to hear the Navy band this morning. I recall my days in Washington and how their weekly concerts was always a source of recreation and rest for the members of Congress who worked. You know, there are some members of Congress who worked. I want to send my greetings to the boys of the Navy band and its leader, Mr. Bentner, and the City of New York. Again, thanks you, Admiral Woodward, and through you, the Secretary of the Navy and the United States Navy for its fine cooperation in New York City. Thank you, Mayor Lagardia. You have just heard the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable F.H. Lagardia. Again, we return to Washington, D.C. From our New York studios, we introduce Captain J. Frederick Helwig, superintendent of the Naval Observatory. Captain Helwig will describe the operation of the retransmission of the time signal. Captain Helwig was the leader of the United States Navy National Geographic Expedition to Canton Island last year. He is scheduled to receive the Longstreet Medal from the Franklin Institute on May 10th for his invention of the automatic time service device such as that which will be used by this station. E. O. Cutler, an official of the Newark News Radio Club, in a letter says, I recall the visit of the Naval Academy midshipman at Bath in 1899. One of the middies who came ashore was J. Frederick Helwig. Today, as captain in the Navy and superintendent of the Naval Observatory, he is famous throughout the world for his achievements in nautical astronomy and especially for the wonderful perfection of the automatic time signals. Ladies and gentlemen, we present Captain J. Frederick Helwig. Mayor Lagardia, Admiral Woodard, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, before describing our automatic broadcasting apparatus, allow me to pay tribute to the vision and the broad-mindedness of the great metropolis New York, as exemplified by your progressive, able and very human Mayor, the Honorable F. H. Lagardia, and those who have aided in this first indication of the awakening of the American public to the importance of accurate time received hourly. For six years, efforts have been made to place the Navy's accurate time signals within the grasp of 140 million American citizens, the taxpayers, those who support the federal government, who maintain our Navy, and who therefore pay for the operation of our time service. For six years, I have looked forward to the day when every citizen in this wonderful country, no matter where he lives, can turn on his radio, whether it's a little $10 set or a $1,000 console, and can receive absolutely accurate time far beyond his conception, whether he is living on a small farm in the western plains, or in a little village in northern Maine, or on the southern tip of Florida or Texas. My first efforts were directed toward the broadcasting of this very valuable service by means of the jewelers of the United States. Articles were written for their trade journals, and their annual convention in New York was addressed in an effort to interest them in the installation of specially constructed radio receiving sets capable of picking up the Naval Observatory's time signals direct and the broadcasting of those signals hourly from above their doorways of their shops to the passing thong, hurrying along the streets in all the cities and all the towns of our broad land. The big radio companies were asked to design and to construct radio receiving sets capable of picking up our time signals direct. And then we were hit by the depression, and I knew that it was too much to ask anyone to buy a special receiving set just to receive our time signals. My next efforts were made to broadcast the time so that anyone could receive it, but only within the last year were these efforts even partially successful, and then only to the extent of having a noon time signal broadcast. Of course, that was entirely inadequate. Thanks to the cooperative efforts of Dr. Siegel of NYC and Mr. E. O. Cutler, we have arrived at this happy day when the hourly time service is being inaugurated by the greatest city in the world. Dr. Siegel needs no introduction. You all know your progressive and wide vision director of programs of your fine municipal broadcasting company, a company which all citizens of New York are justly proud. Dr. Cutler is the director of the Newark News Radio Club of Newark, New Jersey, a club which is said to be the oldest and largest radio DX club in the United States. It has operated over ten years and has members in nearly every state in the Union and in nearly every province in Canada, besides having representatives all over the world. Thanks to Mayor LaGuardia and to these gentlemen, today we see the first concrete evidence of the awakening of the American public to the importance of accurate time broadcast hourly throughout the day. It is hoped that soon every citizen of our broad land will become time-minded and will aid in developing a national hourly broadcast of time straight from the Naval Observatory. When that day arrives, when the listeners of the radio do not have to be told that the next musical note will be six, seven or eight o'clock, when all that will be necessary will be the sounding of that one note at the zero hour, superposed if necessary on whatever is on the air at that time, then my dream will have come true. Eight years ago the Navy was broadcasting time three times a day, with an average error of about three to five hundredths of a second. Not being satisfied with that, within six months the broadcast was jumped to six times a day, and then we were at the limit of our capacity. Funds were not available for the employment of additional astronomers to broadcast the time more frequently. Then occurred one of those developments which make all men realize that there is a supreme being who controls everything. Lacking funds, the development of this inspirational conception was naturally slow. It was three years before our first automatic apparatus was completed and ready for test. On the 7th of May, 1934, we began a six months endurance trial. During that time, naturally, no announcement was made. We wanted to see if our little apparatus could stand the gaffe of 24 hours service a day for months and months on end. But some very amusing incidents occurred. A prominent citizen in northern New York, who is quite an amateur scientist, wrote to Washington to learn if the federal government knew of the new and very accurate time signals, and if so, the source of their emission. He appeared very quickly in Washington after he had been informed that the invention was an American one and that the signals were emanating from Washington. A few months later, a Chinese geophysicist from Nankin, China appeared in Washington after having traveled from Nankin to Berlin, then to Paris, then on to London, and there he learned that the signals he had been receiving hourly Nankin were American signals broadcast from Washington, D.C. He spent nine weeks with us before returning to China. Twice within the last three years, one of the leading horologists in Europe has visited the Naval Observatory to obtain first-hand information. The Naval Observatory has cast off all orthodox ideas and has pioneered across Virgin Country. It is believed that the Naval Observatory is the only observatory in the world where time is determined photographically and broadcast automatically. A prominent European scientist stated three years ago at a public address that the Naval Observatory is 150 years ahead of the world in time determination and time broadcast. Time has always been determined by the visual observation of the transit of stars across the Meridian. We have developed an entirely new method. We've photographed the stars as they transit the Meridian. That entirely eliminates the personal equation or error of the various astronomers, and as the plates can be measured repeatedly, the accuracy naturally is enormously increased. We built a few years ago a particularly efficient type of underground vault where all of our master clocks are kept. They are never disturbed. They are observed daily through a submarine periscope that was taken off of one of our submarines after the World War. We can thus see if there appears to be anything not exactly right. That vault has been very aptly described as a battleship's magazine shoved into a thermos bottle and sunk below the frost line. Temperature, pressure, and humidity have been maintained constant throughout the life of that vault. Recently a British horologist remarked that he had never seen clocks so beautifully treated, and remarked, it's no wonder they performed so perfectly. Our broadcasting apparatus, by virtue of its design, also increases the accuracy of our broadcast. Where before the preparations for a broadcast occupied 17 minutes, now the broadcaster is adjusted twice daily, and it requires only five or six seconds to make the adjustment. Before, all the corrections had to be calculated and applied before each broadcast, and they had to be checked for accuracy. Now the astronomer on watch can actually see the results of his corrections as he applies them. If he overcorrects, he merely walks back the adjustment and applies the correction in the opposite direction. This automatic broadcast is capable of being set with an accuracy of one one-thousandth of a second, and the astronomer can actually see the measure of one one-thousandth of a second on a revolving illuminated glass scale, so that there can be no mistake. He sees his corrections and the results on the scale. After the broadcast is set for the day, the astronomer is free to carry on his other duties. Every hour, at five minutes before the hour, this electrical robo automatically starts. Broadcast the time signals second by second, makes all the identification signals, and at the end of the broadcast makes the zero-hour signal, cuts off automatically, waits 55 minutes, repeats 24 times a day, and 365 days a year. It also receives its own signals over the air and prints them on a ticker tape, so we have a record of all signals sent and received. During the actual broadcasting of the time signal day, I shall explain the various identification signals as they occur, which permits all to know exactly where the signal is. This is being done abroad now, and everybody has to pay for it. We are offering it to the American public for nothing. Now note that each signal is indicated by an audible signal, except the 29th second of each minute which is silent and acts as a signboard. You've noticed four signals. That means that there are four minutes to go. Now every signal will be audible until the next 29th second, which will be silent. And the following signal will be the 30th second. Mark that. Mark that. Now in a few minutes you'll hear the identification signals again. There will be a silence, and then there will be the audible signals. One, two, three. Three more minutes to go. Now you're on the second last minute of the hour. Now don't forget that the 29th second will be silent again, and the next succeeding one will be the 30th second. 30th second. 30th second. You see how very simple these signals are. The navigator on any ship in the world running along the deck hears those signals and knows exactly where he cuts in on the time broadcast. Two minutes to go. And ladies and gentlemen, this entire apparatus is doing this thing automatically. There's nobody in the room where the signal is being sent. The navigator on any ship is being sent. The navigator on any ship is being sent. One more minute to go. Now you notice this is the end of the minute silence. That end of the minute silence is five seconds long. Now at the end of this last minute, the silent period is twice as long. And the zero hour signal is also twice as long as all the other signals. Thirty seconds. At the end of this last minute, there will be a silent period of seven of ten seconds. These signals are very simple, but they have the greatness of simplicity. Each hour, think of public service when the voice of the municipal station announcer will be heard bringing you the exact time. Twelve noon, Naval Observatory Time, New York City Zone Station, WNYC.