Hello. This is Arthur Godfrey, whom somebody once called the old ladies Van Johnson. Well, that's the way it is with we Americans. We have a lot in common. One of the things is our ability to enjoy a good laugh. But you know, seven and a half million Americans suffering from rheumatic disease is no laughing matter at all. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation has a large scientific research program set up. Its aim is to conquer this crippling disease. To continue their work, they need two million dollars this year. Now, I know you'll all want to join in making possible this worthy effort, which has already produced some great advances. So here's what you do. So I'm going to sing a little song for you about a very nice little feller. And while I'm doing it, I want you to sit down and send your contribution to Arthritis. Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Do it now, won't you? Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Hiya, weary fellow. Where you been today? Your yellow hair is frowsy, little guy. I see you getting drowsy, little guy So shuffle upstairs and say those prayers That man is a creeping little guy While you're busy dreaming Of the day you spent Don't let it be known I'm dreaming on my own That someday you'll be president Come snuggle on my shoulder, little guy For one day you'll be older, want to fly But when you're six foot two And folks look up to you To me you still will be my little guy While you're busy dreaming Of the day you spent Don't let it be known I'm dreaming on my own That someday you'll be president Come snuggle on my shoulder, little guy For one day you'll be older, want to fly But when you're six foot two And the folks look up to you To me you still will be my little guy Well there it is Have you made out your contribution To fight arthritis and rheumatism? Well that's fine Now put it in an envelope And mail it to Arthritis Care of the local postmaster With the help of the good lord We'll help those scientists Beat the scourge And you can rest easy In the thought that it is so painless To give before it hurts This is Sammy Kay speaking Today we're faced by a national problem Where more than seven and a half million Americans Suffer from some form of rheumatism or arthritis That's about one person in every 20 Americans Men, women and children Within recent months Researchers have discovered two hormone drugs That can control arthritis to a large degree Scientists assure us That if we give our support to the program Of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation Additional strides may be made in the war Against crippling and pain While we play Hawaiian Sunset As our next number Sit down and mail your generous contribution To Arthritis Care of local postmaster Do it now Won't you? Hawaiian Sunset Blue shadows falling Hawaiian magic Beyond the blue moon And lovely moon A white Sunset A white Sunset When night is callingstered by national konst 마找 addition to a range of magic Van antiquity CoopryS No to bron迎ie You know That am粉 bara Woodуска Has a good Antwort And lovely moon In Session I Stefan I still remember the sunset splendor upon the shore. For in the evening, with palm trees swaying, I heard you say, tonight I'm yours. The wild sunset, soft shadows falling, the hush of my life and lovely you. Oh, wild sunset, I hear you calling, and in the sunset, I'll come to you. Oh, wild sunset. I hear you calling, and in the sunset, I'll come to you. Oh, wild sunset. Oh, wild sunset. Well, folks, that's all until we meet again. But before we close, I'd like to remind you to get your contribution, and often the mails to help the fight against rheumatic disease. Mail it to arthritis, care of local postmaster. Remember, it's so much easier to give before it hurts. I'm going to ask you to get your contribution, and I'll come to you. I'm going to ask you to get your contribution, and I'll come to you. I'm going to ask you to get your contribution, and I'll come to you. This is Morton Downey. Most of us react instinctively to music. Some songs stir an emotion that makes us want to whirl our dancing partners round the dance floor. Other songs, like the torch ballad and the lullaby, well, they sort of make us sentimental. Matters that affect our health, they're just like that. For instance, take the fact that more than seven and a half million Americans, men, women, and children, are victims of arthritis and rheumatism. Our emotions tell us that this is a problem that endangers our own health and the health of our nation. Instinctively, we want to do all we can to remedy the trouble. Scientists have discovered two new hormone drugs that have proven effective against arthritis. But they are not a cure. They do indicate that scientists are on the right track. Now, if the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation program is amply supported, it may ultimately find a cure for rheumatic disease. Here's your chance to follow up your basic American instinct and help the other fellow when he's down. Send your generous contribution to arthritis, care of your local postmaster. And do it now, won't you? While you're writing out that contribution, I'd like to sing a spiritual call. I've been a stranger in my father's house just for you. And when I finish the number, I'll be back to give you the address once again to which you can mail your support. I've been a stranger in my father's house too long, oh, Lord, too long. Take me back. Take me back. Take me back. Take me back. To my father's house. My father's house. My father's house. My father's house. My father's house. Too long, oh, Lord, too long. Take me back. Take me back. Take me back. Take me back. Take me back to my father's house. To my father's house. I've been a stranger in my father's house too long, oh, Lord. Too long I've been a stranger In my father's arms Too long, oh long Too long I've been a stranger In my father's arms Too long, oh long Too long Take me back Take me back Take me back To my father's arms I've been a stranger In my father's arms Too long, oh long Too long Too long This is Morton Downey again, folks. I hope you like the song as much as I did singing it for you. And now I'd like to repeat the address to which you should mail your contribution. Mail it to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Let me repeat that. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Give all you can. Give it now. Give before it hurts. It's the painless way to help 7.5 million Americans. This is Bob Trout. Here's the hottest news since the atom bomb. Scientists have discovered two new drugs that may aid 7.5 million victims of arthritis. But they're not cures. More research is necessary. And that's why we've got to support the program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Send your gift to Arthritis in care of your local postmaster. This is Red Barber. It takes scientific teams to produce the winning hormone extracts cortisone and ACTH. These drugs hold much hope for arthritis victims. Let's keep these scientific teams pitching until they get the disease under control. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is Jay Jostin, ladies and gentlemen. Rheumatic disease strikes often among the poor, robbing families that can least afford the loss. New drugs like cortisone and ACTH can effectively aid the sick and helpless. Support the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Dwight Wiest. Ninety-seven out of every hundred persons beyond middle life develop some form of rheumatism. Scientists can discover more drugs like cortisone and ACTH if we support their research efforts. Help the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Frank Gallop. Rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease are the chief causes of death among children aged 5 to 19 years. Here's your chance to help these unfortunate kids. Support the research program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Remember, Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Mel Allen. Cortisone and ACTH are fighting rheumatic fever, the greatest killer of children from 5 to 19 years of age. Scientific teamwork made that possible. Join the team of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Give to their research program. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Andre Baruch. Even cases of chronic arthritis have shown dramatic improvement when treated with the new drugs Cortisone and ACTH. The research program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation may find a specific cure if we properly support it. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Dennis James. Thanks to medical research, the new hormone drugs Cortisone and ACTH promise to help control rheumatic disease. Support the research program of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. Let me repeat, it's Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is Harry Marble. Arthritis victims have shown dramatic improvement when treated with Cortisone and ACTH. Support of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation research program may lead to a specific cure. Give all you can. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local post office. This is General Lucius Clay. I am gratified that as National Campaign Chairman of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation, my first civic task is to wage war against human suffering. Arthritis, care of your local postmaster, care of your local postmaster, care of your local postmaster. Rheumatic disease denies seven and a half million Americans the right to live free from pain. Scientists have recently discovered two drugs, which dramatically reverse even chronic arthritis. However, much research remains to be done first. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation's research program needs two million dollars for this year's work. Get behind this war against crippling disease. Remember, it is easier to give before it hurts. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of your local postmaster. This is Geraldine Fitzgerald. Two drugs, cortisone and ACTH, have recently been found effective for the treatment of rheumatic fever and arthritis. This is wonderful news for seven and a half million victims of rheumatic disease. But much remains to be done before science can learn to control these twin crippling diseases. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue the fight against rheumatic disorders. Your generosity may help lick this national health problem. Here's how you can help. Mail your contribution to Arthritis, care of local postmaster. It's just that simple to protect those you love. Do it now. Give before it hurts. Send your contribution to Arthritis, care of local postmaster. Arthritis, care of local postmaster. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. Hello. This is Arthur Godfrey, whom somebody once called the old ladies Van Johnson. Well, that's the way it is with we Americans. We have a lot in common. One of the things is our ability to enjoy a good laugh. But you know, seven and a half million Americans suffering from rheumatic disease is no laughing matter at all. Have you made out your contribution to fight arthritis and rheumatism? Well, that's fine. Now put it in an envelope and mail it to Arthritis, care of the local postmaster. With the help of the good Lord, we'll help those scientists beat the scourge. And you can rest easy in the thought that it is so painless to give before it hurts. This is Celeste Holm. Every American mother appreciates the value of education. We know that things don't get done by wishful thinking. Children with good educations are equipped to meet the problems of later life. Right now, we're confronted by a problem we must all meet. Seven and a half million men, women, and children are victims of rheumatic disease. That's a major threat to the health of our families and our nation. Here's how we can help meet that problem. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue its research fight against pain and crippling. Mail your contribution to arthritis. Care of your local postmaster. Give before it hurts. It's lots easier. This is Cornell Wilde. When do you get your best ideas? After dinner? When you finish the evening paper? Or after a good night's rest? Well, if you haven't a good thought for today, I'd like to suggest one that can't be improved upon. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue its research attack on rheumatic disease. Your help may make possible more advances like the two great hormone drugs, cortisone and ACTH. Seven and a half million Americans, victims of arthritis and rheumatism, need your help. Mail your contribution to arthritis, care of local postmaster. The address again, arthritis, care of local postmaster. Give before it hurts. It's the best idea you can get for today. This is John Carradine. Shakespeare's tragedies are the greatest classics of the theatre. They've entertained audiences for centuries because of the manner in which life's problems are portrayed. But the real tragedy of seven and a half million Americans, crippled and pain-ridden by rheumatic disease, is not an entertaining thought. Scientists have recently discovered cortisone and ACTH. These drugs reverse arthritis for the first time in history. But they're not a complete cure. More research is needed. To continue its research program, the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars. Give all you can. Mail your contribution to arthritis, care of your local postmaster. Give before it hurts. This is Hildegard. Nothing disrupts a family quicker than illness or loss of income. Either emergency is bad enough, that we know. But when both strike together, the result may be a catastrophe. Seven and a half million Americans are victims of arthritis and rheumatism. Half the economic loss due to the disease occurs where family income is less than $1,000 per year. The Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation needs two million dollars to continue the research fight against this awful rheumatic disease. Now mail your contributions to arthritis, care of your local postmaster. And give before it hurts. It's the painless way.