I asked for conferences and had conferences with the vice chairman and other members of the majority on the question of adopting rules. One of the rules I asked the members of this council to adopt reads as follows. And you'll remember, I wasn't trying to organize the council just because I was interested in the display of power. I don't care about power or pumps or pageantry. I was trying to organize this council so we'd have a set of progressive rules here for the orderly progress of bills. I was trying to organize this council so that the office of the city clerk would be reorganized to fill a service for this council. And one of the rules which I wanted to apply here was that the clerk shall appoint and at pleasure remove a competent stenographer. And you gentlemen have been sitting here meeting after meeting pouring out so much hot air to a stenographer furnished by the Board of Estimates. And I'm not sure if you just sent one home. Now I'm fed up with this. And if there's any talk of adjournment tonight, gentlemen you can't do it until you adopt the cigarette tax to provide funds for relief which the vice chairman himself said tonight, and we all heard him, is the best administered public assistance in the country today. And in order to make that program continue in 1939, I ask the members to stay here tonight, even without a stenographer, until that cigarette tax is adopted. Having sign jakoed the applying Only in places of 1st of 3lica<|sv|> I look to recall to the worthy president who had just resumed the chair that no meeting can be continued until we get an accurate... Are you yelling now, Reverend? There is now a synagoguist, a takedown, and an important remark that Mr. Kindley is about to make. The president has arranged for a recording of every word that Mr. Kindley or anybody else makes in the council over WNYC. Mr. Cashmore will answer you, I'm sure, Mr. Mars. Very well. Mr. President, the members of the council, there are two things that I believe should be cleared up. One is the president's remarks and the other is the insult. I do not believe, no matter what the president says, that the stenographer's health here in this council is broken because of the hot air. I charge right now. Remember, I was the presiding officer a few minutes ago, and I knew how to preside. Now try and learn something after 11 months and 20 days. It was not the hot air remarks of this council. It was the cheap, low-down, wisecracks of the president. That's what broke this stenographer's heart. He couldn't enjoy your wisdom. Now I've taken enough of this. But we've sat here, and I've repeated on the floor many, many times, that when a crook tries to devoid attention, the first thing he does is haller duck feet. I knew, Mr. President, was mixed up in trying to steal control of this council for over nine months. And now you're tanko. Don't let anybody be fooled by those cheap, wisecracks and foile-esque appearance of you here. As far as the relief for this city goes, you misquoted me. You haven't the courage. When Mr. Slipless asked for a relief investigation and a reasonable amount of money to investigate that relief, you didn't have the courage to stand by one of the members of your own council. You never lifted one finger at any stage of the game to uphold any member of this council. Now as far as the cigarette tax goes, you have 13 votes according to what you said on the floor of this council on January the 3rd. And I'll show you how cheap you are. I'll take you at your word now, and you produce your 13 votes, and I'll cast the deciding vote in favor of the cigarette tax. Will you accept that bargain? Let me hear you say yes, and I'll take you at your word now. The best you can supply me with at this present minute is eight votes. Mr. Vice Chairman, I'm... I'm not Mr. Vice Chairman or anything else. I'm answering you. I'm not in the business... I gave you the privileges of the floor, and I won't take it. I'm not in the business of delivering votes. I don't deliver any votes. You're not in the business of delivering them. You tried to deliver 13 votes didn't you on January the 3rd. I never did. You're still in business. And as the Bible says, and you'll love this, as ye sow, so shall ye reap. And you'll reap that as long as I'm in this council. To a point of order, what are we discussing right now? We're discussing the President's wisecracks and his cheap oil-up display here. Now, if you'll produce a council, if you'll produce a stenographer, we'll stay right here until we clear up the whole situation. Every word you're saying is being recorded on WNYC. I hope it is, because your words were recorded. President, I rise for some information. I understood the question to relinquish the chair on a question of the personal privilege of himself and the president. I've yet to hear the President state the point. But the President did say that the council's stenographer had collapsed. Now, I should like to ask the presiding officer who it was who issued the call for a special meeting of the council at 1245 today to consider the capital budget. Do you want an answer? Yes, sir. The President of the council issued a call for a special meeting to continue from day to day until December 27th or until the budget was adopted. And to begin at 1245 today. You didn't have to sit here all afternoon on the special meeting. And to begin at 1245 today, sir. Is that correct? And it was by your own acumen, Mr. President. The Vice Chairman. I called up the Vice Chairman out of courtesy and asked him when the majority would like to have this special meeting. And I suggested Wednesday on account of the crowded calendar. And he said, let's do it all up on Tuesday. And you've done it all up fine. Mr. President, may I remind you, sir, that as the presiding officer of this party, your duty was to fix the special meeting without consulting anybody under the charter. And you selected a day upon which the council was to hold a regular meeting in addition to which it was to continue a special meeting recess. And you added the third burden of a special meeting on an important item like the capital tax budget, the capital outlay budget. Now, if there's anybody who's to bear the onus of what happened to that unfortunate young man who sat there for four hours without you as the presiding officer giving sufficient humane thought to his welfare to even excuse him for personal needs in that period, it's the president of this council and not any other member of it, whether he talked hot air or common sense or anything else. So don't try to shift that burden. Now, if you have no personal privilege to state or high integrity in the council, I submit that you get a stenographer so we can continue. Mr. President. And in this regard before the House, I suggest that we continue with the regular author of business so that we might pass the cigarette tax so that 860,000 of implied workers should eat and Christmas license. Mr. Bowman. Mr. President. Mr. President, the point of information, if the cigarette tax... Mr. President, if the cigarette tax were passed tomorrow, would it deputize the tax program for the city? If it were passed tomorrow? It says tonight. Mr. President. Mr. President, the mayor must have five days in which to approve the bill and hold a public hearing. Uh, tonight is the 20th. He has the 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th, 25th, doesn't count. Mr. President, the efforts of the controller to provide funds and borrowing are very seriously impaired without the program. Mr. President, the mayor must have been on the program. All right. Get in. I am over. I am not here without a stenographer. I don't know. WNYC station. I am, I am, I am, I am objective to meet my objectives in the way. I am ready to study this at 9 o'clock tomorrow morning. We've got everything that's on this calendar. No one will accuse me of danger of being qualified, danger of being qualified, somebody. Mr. Chairman. I'll take care of the other half next fall. Mr. Chairman, please, may we have a little orderly procedure here. The chair and the members of the council come to order. Mr. President, Mr. President. I've been in trouble for several times. I didn't know that I'd ever use. I'm sorry. I've got an answer yet. We counted up the days. If it's fast tomorrow, is that time enough? If I may answer, Mr. Baldwin, the mayor has to, under the law, advertise for five days and hold a public hearing. Now, the mayor did send in an emergency message here today saying that tomorrow the board of estimate would hold a meeting and at that meeting would, would lay aside a date for a public hearing on the cigarette tax. I believe that was in the special message sent by the mayor. Is that correct, Mr. White? The mayor points out here, if I may read, as you know, the charter requires five days of publication of notice of hearing before the mayor after it has passed both bodies. Therefore, you will readily see that in order to have the tax belittidated before January 1st, immediate action is imperative. He also says in here that estimates for meeting necessary relief expenditures are based on this revenue. Arrangements will be made for public hearing before the board of estimate tomorrow. That's in the mayor's message of necessity. Then we should test it today. Why? After what the president said today, so if we won't assume any of the responsibilities, there will be no considerations, Mr. Chairman, at any time. You're going to go through with this meeting whether you like it or not. And we have the folks here. Now, do you or don't you want a stenographer, Mr. President? Don't need one. Will you assume that responsibility? Why, of course I will. Won't you be content to be a sower that will blush unseen and unheard for a change? Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, Vice Chairman. Is it possible, Mr. President, I know the lateness of the hour, for the council to chip in and hire a public stenographer and you swear him in? I have the power to swear him in. Well, will you make arrangements if we recess for reasonable time to get a public stenographer here, say 15 minutes? I'd say that the present message of the report is even better than a stenographer. You can hear your own voice. May I interrupt, Mr. President, Now, is there any reason that anyone here knows why the Board of Estes, which may have planned for a public hearing tomorrow, cannot hold that public hearing on the 27th or the 28th? Or are they all going to be away on their Christmas vacation? Now, I don't know why we should sit here tonight and all night. I'm just as young as anybody here. But at the same time, I don't see why we should be inconvenienced merely because the mayor and the Board of Estes want to meet tomorrow. Now, the five days that we pass in tomorrow is the 23th. That'll be the 26th. It'll be the 27th. We got the holiday, right? No one holiday. The Sunday is not a holiday. It's just a Sunday. Under the law, Monday is a holiday. So the Sunday is counted because it's not the last day of the five days. That's the anger on the... something else. Now, I say this. Let us meet here tomorrow at 2 o'clock and by in God's providence, we will probably have a synodrome. Now, if we meet here tomorrow at 2 o'clock and we vote on this cigarette tax, then the mayor can have his public hearing on the 27th or the 28th and everything will be what? Kosher? Or cheap? Now, I, uh, Mr. Chairman, I'm ready to move. I want to consult the convenience of the wishes of the majority. By that I mean everyone here. But I think we should adjourn until 2 o'clock tomorrow because we should have a synodrome. No question about it. We'll make the motion until we get the sentiment. What's your board of elections, Mr. Vice Chairman? Why, they're not as important to you as the cigarette tax. Now, do you or don't you want to go through with this meeting? It's up to you. Of course I want to go through with it. All right. You want to go through with it? I suggest that you get a stenographer. That's the responsibility of the council, how they, their remarks recorded. Absolutely. The far as those would consider the going through with such an important meeting without the r- without having a stenographer. Mr. Kinsley, this is better than a stenographer. Better! What? Your children will be able to hear your words. That's marvelous. Thank you, Mr. Kinsley. Now, it's marvelous. Thank you. Now, if you will keep quiet, they might be able to hear me better. I think I have conducted myself, and I believe most of the members of the council have conducted themselves in a very orderly manner today, considering the provocation which has been offered on numerous occasions. But you seem to see fit to explode because God in his wisdom has seen fit to make one human being finally admit that the nervous strain to him is too much. You are quarreling of the welfare and so forth of human beings. And don't try to put the blame over to us. Oh, no, I'm not sure that. But if you believe that you're going to go on with the record without having a stenographer present, in order that we may take down the words of wisdom which you utter, and prove by your own words that you do not know the truth when you utter it, or you do not know the truth when it's told to you, I, for one, am leaving the chamber if you're going to conduct the procedure. If you're going to conduct the procedure in a partial fashion such as that, you are not, I'm ready to go on in an orderly fashion, but I'm not going to have you by your own manner of, and method of procedure. Be enabled. Now, just one moment, please. Now, don't you gentlemen quarrel between yourselves. We'll proceed with the business of this council. Let's go on with the calendar. And if we're not, then Mr. Kingsley is out of order because we have no stenographer to take down his record. I think we're out of order, and for that reason, we'll just continue. I think we're going to have a few questions, presentation and petitions and communication. I am in charge of sending the board to considerate. All right. Injection? I know that message is in any slide on the road station. We're very sorry. Messages and papers from the mayor. Delon, the heading of messages and papers from the mayor. There's a short consultation, fellow citizens, fellow New Yorkers, between the president of the council and Mr. Cashmore, the vice chairman, and consequent upon that, the conference will be the furtherance of this broadcast. May we remind you that you're listening to the meeting of the city council in the council chamber in City Hall. This is the municipal broadcasting system, New York City's own station, WNYC. The president of the council, the honorable Newbold Morris. ...WNYC. You'll each and every one of you get a record for Christmas. This is the president of the council. In C-flat. May I explain how the WNYC will be recorded? In C-flat. May I explain how the WNYC will be recorded? Not tomorrow, and I'm going to listen all back to that direct presence, not C-flat. It's a better, B-national. Councilman Queen just went into musical terminology when he addressed the chair and says, instead of C-flat, be natural. The mic wasn't in front of him in case you didn't catch it. The president. The president. ...Number 20th, 1938. The Queen just went into musical terminology when he addressed the chair and says, instead of C-flat, be natural. The mic wasn't in front of him in case you didn't catch it. The President. Number 38, 1938. The Honorable, Committee Council, City Hall, New York, New York. Gentlemen, may I respectfully... I don't want to interrupt the Secretary, but I want to go on record this much. I don't like this procedure at all. I believe we should have a sonographer. Now, wait a minute. We started in to say, and you said to yourself, we ought to have sonographers, and the reason why we didn't have them is because Cashmore and that crowd wouldn't go along. Well, I don't say it's his fault anymore, and it's all our fault. We had one. We ought to have had two. Now we haven't any. I'm sick, and I don't want to hear any more canned music, you know, see, and I don't want to hear any canned sonographers. I don't want to put the sonographers and the sonographers' union out of business by our acts there. The next thing you know, you won't have any sonographer. You'll have the radio on all the time, and you'll have a disc that when we want it, we'll have to pay $15 or somebody else for it. It's a very bad proceeding, and it's up to you or somebody else to think of a sonographer and think of something else better. It's up to the council, not to me. Councilman Armstrong with the secret this time. Councilman Dulles. Councilman Dulles. Councilman Dulles. The Honorable City Council and City Hall of the York. We all came. May I respectfully remind the council of the necessity of reenacting the present cigarette tax for the period of the first six months of 1939. I would not importune the Council for it not for the fact that time is present. Estimates for meeting necessary relief expenditures are based on this revenue. Arrangements will be made for public hearings before the Board of Estimates tomorrow. As you know, the Charter requires five days of publication of notice of hearing before the Mayor after it has passed both parties. Therefore, you will readily see that in order to have the tax validated before January 1st, immediate action is imperative. I depend entirely on your cooperation. May I take this opportunity of extending to the Council my very best wishes for a Merry Christmas. Yours very truly, F.H. LaGuardia Mayor. Gentlemen, under this system of recording, each member of the Council, before he rises to speak, will he please mention his name so that when the recording, should the recording be necessary, the listener will know who's talking. I want to share that that shouldn't be necessary because when a gentleman rises, the chair should say the gentleman of the chair recognizes Councilman Dusson. Well, I tell you, just once in a while, the gentleman will rise without being asked for recognition, without asking for recognition. Thank you, Mr. President. There you are again. Quinn of Queens. Quinn of Queens. Mr. Quinn of where? Queens. All the Council knows that. Queens. Queen. Mr. President, this is being recorded. I mean, this radio is really on. It's not like that time when Al Smith and Mr. Moses and also our friend Mr. Baldwin was speaking, is it? Hmm. I move that the message of necessity of the mayor be received, ordered, printed, and filed. No ordered. Any further messages? Presentations of petitions and communications. Move. About the post-lections. Thank you, Mr. President. Reports of special committees. Standing committees. Report of the Committee on Finance. Number 389, Council Number 369. Reporting without recommendation. A local law to amend local law number 23. Of 1938 entitled. A local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation to raising revenue for the purpose of relieving the people of the City of New York from the hardships and suffering caused by unemployment and the effects thereof on the public health and welfare by imposing a tax upon sales of cigarettes in the City of New York to enable such cities to fray the cost of granting unemployment work and home relief in relation to a period of time through incest tax shall be paid. The Committee reports as follows. Opposed local law, print number 389, council number 369, introduced by President Morris. By its terms, extend the imposition of one-cent tax on each package of cigarettes for an additional six-month period terminating June 30, 1939. At the time of its original proposal, it was estimated by the sponsors of this tax that it would yield in the neighborhood of $3 million annually. Experience has demonstrated, however, that it yields would be more than twice that figure or $7 million per year. Yet we are again faced with the demand of additional funds. The Comptroller has estimated that even with the reenactment of the cigarette tax, there will be a deficit in relief financing of $7,700,000 for the year ending June 30, 1939, and has estimated that the city's share of the cost of relief during that period will be $79 million. To raise this vast sum, the council has been called upon to load greater and even greater burdens on the backs of the taxpayers. In doing so, we mind members have individually and collectively endeavored to place a restraining hand on the rutless waste of funds designated for the assistance of the unfortunate. In the belief that such funds should be most carefully administered and not made a grab bag for political codenage, the Committee on Finance struck out a clause in each of the tax bills proposed last June that would have permitted the Comptroller and Treasurer to spend $500,000 of the relief revenue for supervision, auditing, and administration purposes. Three minutes, June 24, 1938, page 1316. Those officials were informed that your Committee was not opposed to proper administration but demanded that a proper budget for such expenses be furnished to the council in advance of the authorization of such expenditures. Now your Committee is amazed to find the Comptroller blindly reporting that he is spending $400,000 of relief money annually for supervision and administration. This is in clear violation of law. More than a week ago, the Chairman of the Committee personally requested the Comptroller for a statement of his alleged authority to make this division of the relief money. To date, no answer has been forthcoming. Evidently, the attitude of this administration is, quote, get the money for us, we'll find a way to spend it, end of quote. Six months ago, the council appointed a committee to investigate the administration of relief. As a result of the open hostility of the mayor, that committee has been prevented from functioning while his law officers have dragged the matter to the court as an interminable expense to the taxpayers. If the mayor's administration is as sure as he pretends, why does he fear any investigation? Several members of this committee voted for this bill in June in the belief that the mayor would gladly open the way to an obviously necessary investigation. He has failed to do so and deliberately prevented it. The committee recites these facts with the guidance of the council and we pause the bill without recommendation. Mr. Vice Chairman. We have just received a telephone call from Mr. E. J. Moifey, the official stenographer of the Supreme Court, that if we will send a message to him over the air, he'll be able to be here in 15 minutes to take down our stenographic notes and meetings. So if you will request Mr. E. J. Moifey as the president of this council over the air now, he'll be here in 15 minutes. I'll ask the vice chairman to present that request on behalf of the council. All right, I'll be very happy to do it. And if Mr. Moifey will be good enough... Mr. President, point of order... Mr. Strauss? I believe that communicating with an individual via a broadcasting station is a violation of the rules and regulations of the federal communication... Go ahead, Mr. Dota. Call him up on the telephone. I'm quite serious about that. However, not in the case of emergency. The radio has that particular facility. There are 160,000 merchants in this city. Be careful they don't knock them down together. I think most of the Murphys are asleep. However, it does show you how close the city council meetings are followed when the distress in the matter of a synagogical and the city council is supposed to be. And now the revelry is over and Mr. Cashmore is speaking. Mr. President, I'll answer Mr. Quill this way, that every time I hear him speak, I think of how sorry the 150,000 Murphys really must be. Mr. Kitts, I'm aware of it at 60,000 Murphys. I don't want to be miscorded. He said only 150,000. All right. So therefore, as per instructions, we'll ask Mr. Murphys to come down here. Now the clerk will continue. Now Mr. Chairman Mackie, the report of the Finance Committee might be very controversial and I ask that it be laid over until all non-controversial matters of this meeting be disposed of. Mr. President, placed on general orders. Mr. President, that's 160,000 worth of the city of New York. I hope that not 160,000 will. We'd get rid of our business in the daytime. Gentlemen, this will go on general orders for the day. that's a clock back. Continue the general, the reports of standing committees. The part of the committee on labor and industry, introductory number 409, council number 387, in favor of filing a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to employers of certain utilities in the city whose operation has ceased. the of the City of New York in relation to employers of certain utilities in the city whose operation has ceased. All in favor of filing. All in favor of filing? Aye. So ordered. Be part of the Committee on Public Terror Affairs and Traffic. Council number 233, Conducting number 244, in favor of adopting a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to traffic violations. So, well, the next order of business should be local laws and resolutions. Thank you. By the President, resolution appointing various persons commissions of deeds. General orders. By the Vice Chairman and Mr. Baldwin. Resolution appointing commissions of election to the City of New York at a time beginning January 1st, 1939, noon, and expiring January 1st, 1941, noon. General orders. General orders. In general, in pursuant to provision of Section 31, Chapter 588 of the laws of 1922, quote, an act in relation to elections constituting Chapter 17 of the Consolidated Laws, end of quote. The Council of the City of New York hereby appoints commission of elections. The City of New York at the time beginning January 1st, 1939, at 12 o'clock noon, and expiring on January 1st, 1941, at 12 o'clock noon, the following name, Person. They haven't been duly certified as fit and proper persons and duly recommended for such appointments. S. Howard Cohn, Democrat, the County of New York. William J. Heffernan, Democrat, the County of Kings. David B. Tostuma, Republican, the County of New York. Jacob A. Livingston, Republican, the County of Kings. General orders. Mr. Keegan. My first explanation is to object to the immediate consideration of this resolution today. But I'll have to refrain from such a move because under the conditions and terms of Section 31 of the election laws, the most inequitable statute on the books of this or any other state. Unfortunately, this Council or the local legislative body must confirm the designation of these election commissioners five days before the first of the year. And to object at this time to the immediate consideration of this resolution might leave me in the position of having my fellow Councilman brought in here on another special meeting. However, I should like to use this occasion to point out that under the conditions of 31, the section of the election law under which this resolution is offered, the 500 and some odd thousand voters of Bronx County, plus the 500,000 voters of Queens and the thousands of other voters in Richmond, find themselves the residents of the only three counties in the whole state of New York that do not have a voice in the designation of the bipartisan Board of Elections. Now, I don't advocate any increase in that body because I think four commissioners might substantially administer the needs of the election board in this city. But I do think that a statutory provision that limits the selection of them and makes of the local legislature practically only a rubber stamp in endorsing that selection and leaves that selection with the partisan groups, the major party groups in only two counties in the five of this state, is an act that's unjustifiable and unfair to the voters in the other three counties. Steps will probably be taken after the first of the year to seek legislative remedy where it can be had only in the state legislature. And because I don't want to inconvenience this program and bring these 25... A local law to amend the administrative code in relation to contracts and purchases, requiring compliance with state labor relation law and National Labor Relations Act of the United States. Labor Relations Act. So is. So is. By Mr. Burke. Resolution request from the Board of Elections to provide an appropriation to the Board of Education so that work may be started on the Jamaica Vocational High School in the Borough of Queens. So is. So is. By Mrs. Burke, Conrad, Quinn, Christensen, and Bellis. The resolution request from the Board of Transportation and the Board of Estimates to construct adequate transit facilities in the Borough of Queens. And on rules. So is. By Mr. DiGiovanni. The resolution request from the Commission of Hospitals to the City of New York, employee-only trained, skilled, and licensed operators, exterminated, and fumigated in the public hospitals of the City of New York, in accordance with Section 104 of the Sanitary Code. May I have rules. No way. By Mr. Keegan. A local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation to Cabaret. Why not rules. By Mr. Keegan. Committee on Rules. By Mr. Keegan, a local law to amend the Code of the City of New York, further in relation to Cabaret. General L. Fett. General L. Americano Com Owned, by Mr. Keegan, a local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York, in relation to Regulation of Theaters, during hours when children may be admitted unaccompanied by adults. General L. Edward, by Mr. Nymfo and Quill, a local law to amend the Administrative Code of New York's in relation to street names. No order. By Mr. Quill, a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to street names. No order. By Mr. Quill, a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to street names. No order. No order. By Mr. Quill, a resolution requested the state legislature to amend section 31 of the election law as amended by chapter 777, laws of 1928, to include respective chairman of the counties of Queens as well as New York and King in filing with the council of the city of New York and the names of two residents of the city of New York recommended as fit and proper persons to elect the commissions of election. I ask the clerk to read that as he would. The clerk will read. Whereas section 1 of the election law of the state of New York, as amended by chapter 777, laws of 1928, reads as follows. Section 31. New matter. Recommendations for appointment of commissions of elections. Old matter. At least five days before the first day of January in each odd number of years, or in each alternate odd number of years, at the time of office of the commissions be four years, respective chairman of the county committees within the counties of New York and King, and except as otherwise provided in this article, respective chairman of the county committees of all other counties in the state, of each of the two political parties, which at the general election last preceding the date of such certificate, cast the highest and the next highest number of votes for governor, shall each respectively make and fire. In the case of the counties of New York and King, with the board of all men, the city of New York, and in the case of each of other counties, with the board of supervisors of such county, certificate in substantially the following form, each of which certifies, certificate shall certify the name of person who is a resident qualified voter, in the case of the counties of New York and King, of the city of New York, or in the case of other counties, a resident qualified voter of the county, and who is recommended as a fit and proper person, the appointed commission of election. I, chairman of the county committee of the party of the county of, who hereby, in accordance with the provisions of the election law, certified in the opinion of the majority of such committee, pursuant to a resolution, duly adopted. A resident qualified voter of the borough of, the city of New York, or the county of, is a fit and proper person to be appointed at commission of election. And I do hereby recommend him for appointment to such office, and witness whereof, I have made and executed this certificate, this day of, blank, 1900, blank. Each of such certificates shall be duly acknowledged by the person executing the same. If at any time of vacancy occurs, the office of any commission of elections, by death, resignation, removal of inability, to serve, the chairman of the county committee of the political party, to which such commissioner belongs, and if he was a commissioner of elections of the city of New York, and a resident of the borough of Manhattan, or the borough of the Bronx, the chairman of the county committee of New York County, of his party, or if he was a resident of any other borough of such city, the chairman of the county committee of Kings County, of his party, shall likewise, make and file a certificate, in substantially the form and executed, and acknowledged as above provided, recommending the name of a qualified person, to fill the vacancy. Whereas in the year 1928, the counties of New York and Kings, were the most populous in the city of New York, and other counties were allegedly separately inhabited, whereas at the present date, the population of the county of Kings, is approximately 1,300,000 people, and whereas these 1,300,000 people believe, that the county is entitled to representation, and recommending for appointment commissions of elections, now therefore be it resolved, that the council of the city of New York, respectfully petition, the legislature of the state of New York, to amend section 31 of the election law, as amended by chapter 777, laws of 1928, to include the respective chairman, of the county committees of, county of Queens, in addition to the respective chairman, of the county committees, of New York and Kings, in filing with the council of the city of New York, of the names of two residents, of the city of New York, recommended as fit and proper persons, to be elected commissions of elections, and further, resolve that a copy of this resolution, be forwarded to his Excellency, the governor of the state of New York, and the majority and minority leaders, of the state and assembly, of the state of New York. I'm not further to complicate that resolution, I have the consent of the author, to add, and the borough and county of Bronx, to the resolution. I consent. Is the amendment accepted? All in favor of accepting the amendment? Call the law. On the amendment? No, it's now on the amended resolution, is there immediate consideration? Committee on Rules. Mr. Chairman, on the reference there, I've been a member of the Committee on State Legislation, and waiting patiently for over 11 months, for something to do. Now don't take that little crumb away from us. Just properly, since it calls on a state legislature, as I understand the strategic, is that correct, to enact the necessary legislation, I think properly belongs, in the Committee on State Legislation. Now the Committee on Rules has enough, and I would suggest that... I'm very happy to agree with Mr. Bellis. Committee on State Legislation. Merry Christmas. mysteries. Furious. Thank you. By Mr. Quinn, Resolution requesting the state legislature to initiate legislation to alleviate the present mortgage foreclosure crisis in the state of New York. So on it. By Mr. Schick, resolution requesting the mayor to negotiate with the United States Navy in an effort to provide a naval army or some other suitable replacement for the briar cliff which was recently sunk at its place in Staten Island. So on it. By Mr. Schick, a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to regulating and licensing the installation of oil-burning equipment and delivering a fuel oil for use in such oil-burning equipment. So on it. By Mr. Schick, a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to removal and suspension of employees. By Mr. Schick, a local law to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation to street names. By the vice chairman. Memoriam William J. Lee. Whereas William J. Lee, former executive clerk of the Board of All-Alemans and City Council and former superintendent of recreations in the Park Department of the City of New York, has passed to his heavenly reward, leaving behind a host of friends in the political and social life of this city. Therefore, be it resolved that the Council, having learned with sorrow of the death of William J. Lee, extends sincere sympathy to the family of deceased in the hour of sorrow and directs to the minute of this expression, be written into this record. And a copy hereof, signed by the President of the Council and City Clerk, be transferred to the family of the late William J. Lee. Is there objection to immediate consideration? On the motion of the vice chairman, members of the Council will indicate their affirmation by a rising vote. The general orders for the day. The following are the general orders now appearing on the calendar. General order number one, Council number 334. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation to the appointment of a commissioner of bill drafting and describing his powers and duties. Couple, couple. Couple. Couple. Couple. Couple. Couple. I ask if that be held out for discussion. That was later signed. Later signed for discussion. General order. If it's satisfactory. There's no opposition, I don't think. General order 82, Council number 349. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the amendment. To amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to the power of the Board of Estimates to pay or compromise the legal claims on equitable grounds. So it is. General order 83, Council number 360. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting a local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation to withdraw and deposits of money. No order. I'd like to answer that. Be laid aside temporarily. No objection. Be laid aside for discussion. General Order 84. Council Number 361. Report of the Committee on Finance. Favor adopting a local law. Command the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to signatures on warrants and checks. Couple. General Order 85. I wish to withdraw my objection to the other one, have that couple of this specific bill that I want to have laid aside. Couple 83. 84. 84. And laid aside 85. That's right. We take advantage of a slight pause in the actual business of the Council to make our station identification. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System, New York City's own station, WNYC. We return you now to the bill clerk. So on it. General Order 86. Council Number 363. Board of the Committee on Parks and Playgrounds. Favor adopting a local law. Command the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to the park named Marconi Memorial Field, Borough Queen. Couple. So on it. General Order 87. Resolution 149. Report of the Committee on Rules in favor of adopting an amended resolution. Requesting the Police Commissioner, the Mayor, and the Board of Estes to make provisions for an increase in the personnel. The Police Department of the City of New York and the adoption of the budget for the fiscal year commencing July 1st, 1939. May I ask that? Go ahead, Joe. Mr. Baldwin. Mr. President. Due to the lateness of the hour and the fact that the Police Commissioner was present here today, but on the suggestion and courtesy of the Vice Chairman left until he was called for again, I suggest that we lay this over until the next meeting. And I ask that the Police Commissioner would be present at that time. I would like to make a statement at this time that the Police Commissioner was here at 1 o'clock for the request of the Council. We did excuse him subject to him being called later. Unfortunately, we weren't ready for him until after 9 o'clock and the Commissioner had other duties to perform which were in connection with his official capacity. So therefore, I'll acquiesce and go along with Mr. Baldwin and just be laid over until the next meeting. So ordered. General Order 88, Resolution 159. We forward to the Committee on Rules in favor of adopting a resolution for the appointment of a committee. to make a comprehensive survey and investigation of the Department of Sanitation for the purpose of preparing remedial legislation to safeguard and protect the employees thereof, protect the public against financial waste and disease, and in general, to improve the administration of the Department of Sanitation by appointing the following committee consisting of Councilman DiGiovanni, Keegan, Schick, Carroll, Quinn, and Hollander. Okay. Mr. Seppler, I move the adoption of this resolution to carry out the question to the point of the committee so that he set forth in the resolution for the legislation to celebrate and the law of sanitation. Do you want to have it on general audit? I want to have it separate, Mr. Seppler. No, Mr. Seppler asked to have it a matter of general audit for today. I would like to discuss it as you may. And later side for discussion. I have a poll. Call the roll on the coupled general audit. I didn't ask that one of the matters be laid aside because it's simply that I wanted to rise to make an announcement on behalf of the committee on parks and playgrounds. An announcement that I was asked to make so that the members of the council may be guided as to their future conduct and the renaming of parks. It seems that the mayor has a board which he consults with respect to the names of all streets and thoroughfares and all parks that are to be named after deceased war veterans. Very often, after one of those bills is passed in the council, we get a veto message from the mayor to the effect that, having consulted with his board, he finds it impossible to acquiesce in our wish that the street or park and playground be named in accordance to the vote of the council. Accordingly, the committee on parks and playgrounds has asked me to announce this method of practice for that committee, that where there is submitted to the committee on parks and playgrounds a local law proposing to change the name of a park or to name an unnamed park after a war veteran, that the sponsor of that resolution communicate in advance with the mayor in order to have the mayor's board pass on this to make sure that in the event we do pass a local law, it will be approved by the mayor. We can expedite things in that manner and work harmoniously with the mayor. The mayor's board and the mayor's board is the mayor's board and the mayor's board appoint a private board to supervise what we do here. I would like to answer that question, Mr. Serpilis, that there is no such section of the charter, but we're being practical about this. The fact of the matter is... I believe it's a matter of courtesy, Mr. Serpilis. Yes, I would like to have the mayor exercise some courtesy toward us more frequently. That's just the point. That is the point. I want to say, Mr.... through the chair to you, Mr. Spellman, that I think that is setting a very bad pressure. Now, the mayor knows that this is a legislative body. We are a body that passes legislation dealing with names of streets and playgrounds and farms. And for us to concede that we will submit to a private committee that he appoints, what we plan to legislate upon is ridiculous. To me, it is childish. Mr. Serpilis, may I say in answer to the question which is inferred by your remarks, that the members of the committee and myself are in thorough agreement with what you say? Now, let it be clearly understood that the mere fact that the mayor's private committee does or does not approve the name of a given veteran for the naming of a park will not ultimately control the determination of the committee. But in order to avoid this mechanical difficulty, we had it twice tonight, as you might have noticed, and veto messages from the mayor to avoid the terrific difficulty of passing the... We've been submitting everything to the president before they introduced it in Congress and we're in a wonderful mess in this country. Now, if we're going to abdicate and let the mayor do everything, let's pass a resolution that we won't meet except 10 minutes every month. The charter requires that we meet once a month. Now, if we want cooperation, we're here tonight at half past 12 because the mayor probably wants to get his group together and the board of us to tell him what to do tomorrow on a hearing. We are cooperating. I don't know where he is tonight. He may be home in bed. I hope so. But the point is, you know, cooperation, Mr. Spellman, is a two-way matter. Reciprocity. We're all over 21. So is the mayor. Now, I am opposed to any suggestion that will lead to setting a precedent because if we're going to consult him before we introduce legislation in regard to naming parks and streets, then the next step will be to ask to consult him before we introduce legislation on anything else. Mr. President, I don't think it is necessary for Councilman Serplice to make his weekly anti-Laguardia speech at this time of night on this subject. All the mayor is doing, as I understand it, from what was said in the committee the other day, is he has to sign these bills or not sign them. Now, I see no reason why he shouldn't consult people in the neighborhood as to whether it's a good idea to name the park after Joe Gish or after Joe Zilish. And this is certainly no great national or industrial crisis which is being caused. And it's a little late in the night for this sort of stuff. And let's go on. Mr. D. Giovanni. As I understand it, this armory board, although appointed by the mayor, has been functioning for many years past. From what I hear, there's been no word of criticism against the members of that committee. And I understand they're all war veterans or people who know something about the army or the navy or whatever service the bill may have application to. So that as far as I can see, there's really no substance to Mr. Surplus' criticism. And we cannot in any way at any rate control the mayor's actions on that score. I believe with Mr. Spelman that the most practical thing to do is to send the bill instead of to the mayor, get the opinion of the armory board. And then from that point on, we can send it out and down to the mayor's office in the event that we pass it. These are all veterans, is that it? Yes. All right, then. On the question of veterans' names and the names of veterans, if it's a veterans committee, that is likely to me. Mr. Barney? Roll call. Call the roll. Roll call. Backer? I can't hear them. Aye. Baldwin? Aye. Fellas? Aye. Aye. Quake? Carroll? Aye. Christensen? Aye. Christensen? Aye. Christensen? Aye. Conrad? Get this one. Deering? Aye. G. Giovanni? Aye. G. Giovanni? Aye. Mrs. Oyl? Aye. Mrs. Oyl? Aye. Hollander? Aye. Keegan? Aye. Kinsley? Aye. Kinsley? That both. That both. What do you think? Aye. What are you going to call free? 334? Party? Aye. Aye. Ninfo? Nugent? Will? Aye. Aye. Mr. Burrell? Aye. Aye. Mr. Burrell? Aye. Mr. Burrell? Aye. I will vote aye. But I am again mixed up by the officer and the house is falling down now. 25 minutes ago, they promised Mr. Murphy here in 15 minutes. It's 10 minutes late. Aye, vote aye. Aye. Ha, ha, ha. Can't believe he's gone. He's gone. He's gone. He's gone. He's gone. He's gone. He's gone. Aye. I will. Wins? Aye. Dancer? Aye. Schick? Aye. Scharkey? Aye. Spellman? Aye. Spellman? Aye. Aye. Scouse? Aye. Sir, flinch? May I explain my vote, Mr. Chairman? Aye. In explaining my vote, I want to resent, on behalf of all the Murphys, the implied criticism aimed at them by Mr. Quill for being late here tonight. Aye. I vote aye. Vice Chairman. Sorry. Chairman Mann, change my vote. It's not voting. Aye. The change my vote is not voting. Aye. Aye. 26 in the affirmative. 26 in the affirmative. Adopted. Matters laid aside for discussion. General Order 81. Council number 334. Report of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting an amended local law to amend the administrative code of the City of New York in relation... We have a little order we can't hear. In relation to the appointment of a commissioner of bill drafting and prescribing his powers and duties. Mr. Sw<|az|>? Isavis pareceing. wyoming Attorney's Health Senate a Rothenberg's, theifferentinal audit, and government defrained by a former officer of invalorfleet and judicial trial. Stop making good accounting mayor within the women's favor of the Law of the University of New York. Do the SCULT Polité and Justice in river the licence. to amend the administrative code of the city of New York in relation... We have a little order we can't hear. In relation to the appointment of a commissioner of bill drafting and prescribing his powers and duties. Mr. Strauss. On the bill, I ask to have this held out for discussion. There were two bills calling for the appointment of the bill drafting commissioner. One of them was introduced by this side, by Mrs. Earle. Counsel number 334, general order number 81. Ours, what was the number? It was not on general orders, it was in the committee. Excuse me if I refer to the fact that there were two bills. One of the bills was buried in the committee. The bill that was buried in the committee, 339, only differed from this bill in one particular. It called for two-thirds vote of the council to appoint the bill drafting commissioner, and it required that the president can have some order. This is important. It's very important to this council. It may not be important to anybody outside it. But this bill, this other bill required that the bill drafting commissioner, who should be appointed by the council, should be familiar with the laws of the state and the city, I think, is the phraseology. Now that seems like a very modest requirement for a bill drafting commissioner. But unfortunately, our friends on the other side, can I have some order please? I'm going to gather. Our friends on the other side, first of all, took out the provision that a two-thirds vote of the council should appoint this man, because they wanted to control his appointment themselves, maybe they're entitled to. And secondly, they took out the minimum requirements that we had inserted that he should be familiar with the laws of the state and the city. Now, I asked Mr. Cashmore and the committee who they intended to appoint to this position, and he said he had no idea. I then consulted some friends, some advisers, as to who was confident to fill his position. And was told that there were probably only two or three men in the whole state of New York, who really were qualified to fill his position. One of them was in Albany and one of them was in New York. I'm not going to mention your names here now. It's not the individuals that counts. It's the fact that there are very few lawyers, as I understand it, in this state, who really can do this sort of a job and do it properly. And Mr. Cashmore, I think, agrees with us. Now, we have no objection to the Democratic majority appointing this man if they will appoint somebody who really will be confident, and who will assist this council in the drafting of the laws that are introduced in the council. This is a very necessary thing, and it will benefit both sides equally. Now, I hope very much, all I want to say is this. We will have a chance, this bill I think will be adopted, and we will have a chance to decide who is going to fill this position. At least there will be nominations from both sides in due course. And I hope very much that if we go along on this bill without too much objection at the present time, because we feel that it's necessary that this position should be filled, that the Democratic majority leader, the Vice Chairman, will make a conscientious attempt to appoint a competent person to this position. And I just want to make that a part of the record at this time, and to earnestly recommend to him that he be very careful in considering the qualifications of anybody who he nominates for this office. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ariel. Just one other point I'd like to stress in connection with this bill, Mr. Chairman. Although it isn't my bill, I have no feeling in the matter whatever. But I do think it's important, Mr. Chairman, I'd like a little order, please. I can't talk any louder than I'm talking at one o'clock at night. I do think it's important, Mr. Chairman, to realize that anybody getting this position must give full time to it under the charter. And I wonder if there's any lawyer in New York City who is competent and experienced with the requirements which this sort of a job must have, who would work for the council for $7,500 a year. I doubt very much if you could get a full time bill drafting commissioner for $7,500 a year. Now, I know it isn't a very attractive thing to offer to pay someone more than it is provided in the bill. But a competent, experienced, first top-ranked man certainly isn't going to give up a good law practice to work for $7,500 a year. I think it ought to be $10,000 a year, and then we'd get a good person. Under the charter, he can have no other employment but this job. Lead you of honor? The compensation as I see it in this bill, Council Number 334, provides for $10,000 per year. The compensation, wait now, let me read it. The compensation of the commissioner shall be $10,000 per annum. Has that been amended? Well, at any rate, that was just one of the points that happened to come up while Mrs. Earl was talking. I'll correct myself. But now it seems to me that the question as to whether a person is voiced on the law of the city or not is very unimportant. We've seen here where the Corporation Council of the city himself, on three occasions, in connection with matters in the city council, has gone off at a wrong tangent and been reversed in the Court of Appeals. And it must be, it says, the county admitted to practice in the courts of the state. And secondly, it says, he must be a skilled legislative draftsman with bill drafting experience. I don't think it's important whether the man knows anything in connection with the city charter or not, because what we want is a lawyer admitted to practice in the state, a skilled legislative draftsman, and one who's had some bill drafting experience. The question as to whether a man knows the law of the city charter or the law of the city is unimportant, because I don't think even the Corporation Council or very few people in the city know what this law is about. And that also includes the people who wrote the city charter. Mr. Nugent. Mr. Nugent was up first, Mr. Armstrong. I might say that in reference to Mr. Strauss and Mrs. Oyle, that they can rest assured that the vice chairman of this body, with his legislative experience, with the experience that he's had as an alderman, with his experience that he's had for the last year, he's had for the last 11 months, is duly qualified to at least suggest someone who has the ability to be a bill drafting commissioner. We realize what his duties mean. We also realize that $7,500 perhaps is not enough money for him. But when you figure that the bill drafting commissioner at Albany gets $10,000 with expenses, he in New York will live here. So there's, I know that so far as that is concerned, that whoever they may decide upon will be decided with that faith and view that they're fully qualified to carry on as a bill drafting commissioner. Mr. Dr. Kesson, please. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I don't think we should put on this discussion, but to make any comparison between what this man in New York may get and what the man in Albany is getting, I'd like to call to your attention the fact that the man in Albany has a very large law practice. law practice. The state constitution doesn't require that he give all his time to his job. Our charter does. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Armstrong. As Councilman Strauss had stated, there was two different bills. I'm a member of that committee. I would naturally prefer to have our bill come out. I said it wasn't possible. I didn't have the votes in the committee. I wouldn't have the votes here. That's natural. I agree with all hands. We need a bill drafting clerk. We've said it ever since we've been here, and now we're about to get one. The quicker we vote upon this proposition, the better it suits us all. And I trust and I believe that Mr. Cashmore, who will have more of the responsibility than anybody else of our group here, both groups, will select a capable man. The responsibility is not with me as the minority leader. The responsibility is with you, John. And I believe it was Brother Cashmore that suggested the $10,000 be cut down to $7,500. If he can get a man for $2,500 cheaper, though I don't like to raise for lower wages. But I believe there are capable lawyers around that can get along on $7,500 now. Maybe several years ago they could. And let's try this plan. When the vote comes upon the floor for the selection, I might have one I might suggest. And who knows, John might take my selection. And so I move for the vote. We realize, being in the majority, that it is our responsibility. There were two bills introduced into the council, creating a bill drafting commission. They both called for a salary of $10,000. As Mr. Armstrong has so ably said, $10,000 in 1929 is a little different than $10,000 in 1938. I don't believe that we'll have to draft any lawyer within the hearing of my voice to take this job for $7,500. And I believe we'll have plenty of clientele to be able to select from. We did, however, make one or two amendments in the bill. The one amendment that we made was reducing it from $10,000 down to $7,500. And another one is that we reduced the vote by which this bill drafting commissioner shall be elected from two-thirds to the majority vote because we believe, being in the majority, that we should take the responsibility. We're happy now to take that responsibility. And all I can say is that there isn't one member on this side of the House at the present moment that has spoken to me as to who the bill drafting commissioner should be, what for a hill come from. All I ask is one thing, and that is that the men have the qualifications, the ability, and the patience to give full time to this council. If that isn't done, I have a provision in here whereby he can be removed. With that, I ask for the vote. I ask for the vote. Backer? Ballwood? Fellas? Boyd? Carroll? Christensen? Conrad? Conrad? Dearing? DeGivani? DeGivani? DeGivani? Mrs. Oil? Hollander? Keegan? Kinsley? McCarty? Ninfo? Nugent? Will? Quinn? Kendra? Dick? Carkey? Nugent? Will? Quinn? Kendra? Dick? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Carkey? Aye. Fellman? I'm. Spout? Aye. Good Place? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Vice Chairman? Aye. Thank you. You're not about to be adopted. That must be adopted. Pardon me at this time. I had a telephone call just a moment ago on a matter that Mr. Spellman had referred to in connection with one of the mayor's vetoes. Mr. Edward Rieckett, the president of the Army Board, telephoned and asked me to explain to the members that the Mayor's Committee on Names and Sites is composed of the county commanders of all of the service organizations in the five counties of the City of New York. In connection with the particular bill, the Leo Paselli Park, the Mayor vetoed the bill because when the committee had a meeting last week, they didn't have sufficient information on the service record of soldier Leo Paselli. But in the meantime, they had a meeting yesterday, and they have this complete service record, and they have presented to the Mayor a memorandum today recommending the approval of the bill. So, if you introduce it again, I think the Mayor will sign it. Oh, excuse me, that was Mr. Quinn's bill. I'm sorry. I get to hear that. And I repeat what I said before, that as long as this committee is composed of veterans, why it's perfectly satisfactory as far as I'm concerned. Continue, all. The clerk will continue. Channel order, 84, Council 361. Be part of the Committee on Finance in favor of adopting local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to signatures on warrants and checks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, did you ask to have this? To view the fact that this was a request amendment put in by Mr. Cashmore, and since I've gotten some information at the Treasurer himself, it's not altogether in agreement with it, I've requested Mr. Cashmore if he'd consent to lay it over one week so he can find out whether both the Comptroller and the City Treasurer in favor of the amendment. I have no objection to laying it over for a week. Lay it over to the next meeting. To the next meeting. General order, 88, Resolution 159. We're part of the Committee on Rules in favor of adopting a resolution or appointment of a committee to make a comprehensive survey and investigation of the Department of Sanitation for the purpose of preparing remedial legislation to safeguard and protect the employees thereof, protect the public against financial waste and disease, and in general to improve the administration's Department of Sanitation. Mr. President, I believe I already moved the adoption of this, and it was second. And speaking on it, the hour is so late, I do not intend to make any extended remarks. We know the great controversy that exists regarding the matter of the disposal of garbage. Commissioner Carey seems to have the obsessed and completely captivated with the idea that garbage should be dumped instead of being burned. Personally, I think he is wrong. The committee will investigate and go into that question. We also want to know why 11 of the incinerators have been closed down, although it cost a great deal of money when 22 of them were constructed. And we've had many complaints about the lack of cooperation on the part of Commissioner Carey. May I say Commissioner Carey personally is a very fine gentleman, and there's nothing personal about the investigation. May I point out, as I said two weeks ago, I believe that for several months, the grand jury in Kings County made a thorough investigation of the Department of Sanitation and found many, many things which should be remedied. They didn't indict because the matters that came up before them all took place in New York County, which is where the police headquarters are located, as I remarked earlier today, and properly so. Now then, there is the item. It may be happening in every department. I don't know. But passenger automobiles of the department being used for private purposes, which is a violation of Section 890 of the Charter of the City of New York. Then I mentioned a few weeks ago, and I repeat again, we apparently have had a restaurant over in the Health Department building operated not for the benefit of the rank and file of the Health Department, but apparently for the benefit of the officials. Now, who's paying for it, where the money comes from, and where it goes to is a matter of interest. Now then, there have been promotions in this department. We are advised in violation of the civil service laws. These machines that we had, that we saw trying in a weak way to get rid of the snow. Every day we had reports of a breakdown of these snow-go machines. We feel that a great deal of money was wasted in buying these machines. Out at Baisley Park and Cornell Park, it's well known that because the garbage was dumped out there, the Jamico pumping station had to be closed down. Last week, we had before us the Commissioner of Water, Supply, Gas, and Electricity, who told us, yes, that had been closed down, although he said the water was not affected as far as its, I think the word is potable. It was potable, the water was. He didn't use that word, as I recollect. It was drinkable, potable, the left halfback says. But he said it did have a very bad taste. That's the reason it was shut down. Now, that's a big plant out there, and it is just too bad that that had to happen. And then there were 30 wells out in Queens, private wells, which were certified prior to the dumping to contain good water, fresh water, and they have had to be shut down. Now, contracts have been let for 30 steel scouts, and I think that I want to say now, I hope the Commissioner, and I hope the Board of Estimate, will hold up any further work on those steel scouts, because we wanted those scouts, if they had to be built, to be built in New York City. But some of them are being built down in Wilmington. Take note, Mr. Quill. And I don't know why the wishes of the people of the city and of the council are disregarded. The more employment we give here, of course, the less there will be people on relief. Now, the mayor was requested time and time again by the grand jury to cooperate and to investigate, and the grand jury told me that they could not get near him. Same way with my dear friend, Mr. Hoylands. I see, by the way, Mr. Hoylands is now investigating relief in Brooklyn. It shows that while the lamp holds out to burn, the viola sinner may return. Now the mayor and he are satisfied that relief needs investigating. But Mr. Hoylands has a lot to do. And he probably felt that the matter of investigating the sanitation department was too small a matter for him to bother with. Now I want to say this. There's a very important angle that developed in the last month or so, and that is in regard to the rank and file who have been ordered to get new uniforms. That's $16 a uniform. Because on these uniforms, there must be placed braid and insignia showing the emblem of the World's Fair. Now that's very important, to have that on there. Because that adds to the efficiency of the department, I assume. In other words, the man will get 15 more pushes of his broom in a half an hour with that on there than if he didn't have it on. But incidentally, he has to pay $16 for this uniform. Now it is too bad, because so many have called me up, and so many have called up various other members of the council, and have told us that they have been ordered to buy these uniforms and to go to one certain concern on the Bowery and to pay their $2 deposit. And I had them call me up and say, Mr. Surplus, shall I pay this $2 deposit? And I said, well, what will happen if you don't pay it? And they have said we will be brought up on charges. Now if the city departments can tell their men when they don't need uniforms, that they must buy uniforms, why, it's something new to me. As I said before, we're probably, in this Christmas tree discussion we had, we're getting away from the old American system, and we're now having a system under, what do you call it, bureaucracy, under which men are told whether they need uniforms or not, they must take the money and buy the uniforms. Now I have here an offer from one concern, and I know there are several that have offered to do this. They've offered to put, take the uniform, the uniform that each man now has, and many of them have bought uniforms only in the last couple of months. They will take those uniforms and put this braid on, the uniforms they now have, and the insignia, at a cost of one dollar. And yet these men are being ordered to go to this place on the Bowery and give him the order. Now another interesting thing which I submit for the edification of our Labor Party representatives is this. I have been informed that the making of these uniforms is to take place outside the city. Now that defines state of affairs. I suppose the wage scale in places outside the city is lower than it is in the city because we insist upon a certain wage scale here. And if it's lower outside the city, why, the manufacturer is going to make a bigger profit. Now I want to find out whether when a man has a good uniform, whether he can be arbitrarily told to buy a new uniform even if he doesn't need it. And I want to find out whether this Department of Sanitation is a law unto itself. I repeat, Commissioner Carey personally, apparently he appeared before us the other day, is a very nice gentleman. We have in the resolution here that in fairness to Commissioner Carey, I'll read the language here, that in the interest of fair play, we want to give Commissioner Carey an opportunity to be heard by this committee. Perhaps he can explain some of these things. But in any event, gentlemen, I want to say this. I am satisfied from the many, many communications I have received and from the information given me by the grand jury and by the community councils and various taxpayers' organizations that the sanitation department is in sad need of an investigation. And I ask you to pass this resolution so that we can proceed on our way. Incidentally, this investigation will not, it will not be necessary for us to go to the Court of Appeals in order to determine whether we can investigate. The mayor, you know, in the other investigations is now making a last despairing appeal to the Court of Appeals to be heard in his efforts to block this council from exercising its right to investigate. So that if this resolution is passed, within a month or two, we will be able to form our committee, at least in its name, and the ordinary part. In whom very little attention is paid, we pat the police on the back and we pat the firemen on the back. The sanitation employee gets very little attention. I hope that everyone here who is interested in fair play for these men will vote for this resolution. Mr. Proud, Mr. Strauss, I think that everybody should know the seriousness with which Councilman Sirkless and the Committee of Rules considered this resolution of investigation. This resolution contains everything from hell to breakfast. It takes in more territory than any resolution that I've ever seen presented to this council. You might think that in virtue of the seriousness of the charges that Councilman Sirkless has made against Commissioner Carey, he would have been anxious to have had the Rules Committee check very carefully on each of the items contained in this resolution, even though it took two weeks to do it, and it would take no less than two weeks. It's under on the left. I don't know what cause of that is. You might think that Councilman Sirkless would have really asked this committee to check into these charges, but I'd like to describe for the benefit of the Councilman and anybody else who's interested what actually transpired in the Rules Committee. This is about what happened. This is my version of what happened. The Fusion members were sitting down in the middle of the long table, and Councilman Sirkless and all the Democrats were in a huddle at the other end of the table. And the conversation ran something like this. Boys, we want an investigation, don't we? Yes? Bring on your witnesses. So the first person to appear, as I remember, was Mr. Beals and the community council. Well, Mr. Beals made a few violent statements about Commissioner Carey, and then they brought on a fellow named Star who was on the grand jury, and he made a few more violent charges about Commissioner Carey. And then the boys said, we want an investigation, don't we? And at that point, I said to the chairman, this is a serious question. It seems to me that the least we could do is to ask the commissioner to appear and ask him whether there's any truth in this. Oh, no. We're not going to have the commissioner over here. We don't want to know whether there's anything in these charges or not. So then I said, since they didn't want to hear Commissioner Carey, so then I said, well, what about asking Commissioner Hurland to make an investigation, a 30-day investigation? I said, I'm willing to put a time limit on it, a 30-day investigation on these charges and to report back to the council. Because under the charter, the council can order the commissioner of investigation to make an investigation for it, as distinguished from making an investigation for the mayor. And they said, oh, no, we don't want to know what Hurland thinks about this. We want an investigation. Now, that is not a Burlesque. That's exactly what happened in this committee. And this whole thing was put through in approximately an hour of talk under the so-called huddle system. So, they got an investigation. It comes out here on the floor. In the meantime, Councilman Surplus has had an opportunity to look into one of the charges, which is a purely technical question, the thing that we discussed yesterday in this meeting, the question of dumping, the landfill method of dumping versus incineration. but he didn't take the trouble to come out on this trip. So, again, he didn't want to do any investigation. Mr. Chairman, can we have a little water? It's all been difficult to hear. It's all about everybody else talking. I think you're how it's out. Mr. President, I'd like to continue with this story of this investigation. This thing, this resolution has been brought out here and if we wanted to keep this Council here for the next three hours, answering in detail every one of these charges that have been made, we can do it. I don't propose to do that. The resolution is so vague, has been so little implemented by any factual evidence whatsoever presented to the Rules Committee. It's so obviously the product of a desire on the part of certain gentlemen to put Commissioner Carey on the spot and apparently to do it without giving that gentleman any opportunity to appear before the committee to defend it, that I don't think that the resolution should even be given the benefit of any discussion in this Council because it is not a serious resolution. There may be, there may be some things in this resolution that have merit in them. Some of these charges have. I don't know. There's so many charges. I've had no opportunity to find out and God knows Councilman Surplus has had no opportunity because he has taken the, he's taken the argument of certain violently, certain gentlemen who feel very violently about Commissioner Carey who are in no mood to examine this question objectively. And I refer to the two gentlemen who appeared, who appeared before our committee. One of these gentlemen says that our tour to the dunks the other day was all stayed. As I suggested before, I could see no way in which they could stage a garbage dump except possibly to put perfume on the garbage dump because obviously the only thing you can do is to put topsoil on top of this earlier because we were coming out. But what difference does that make? The point is that this method of filling does include topsoil and that you can't see or smell any garbage in these landfills after the topsoil has been put on. And this method of dumping has been used all over the world. We've got letters from the city of Manchester in England. We have letters from the cities in New Zealand. And the engineering news record, which is a technical paper in the field, is tremendously interested in this method and it is a recognized new, and I'm sorry to disagree with Mr. Baldwin, it's a more progressive method of disposing of refuse and incineration and a much less expensive one. And the proof of the pudding is that the budget of the sanitation department has been reduced by $6 to $7 million, I think, more than that. Mr. Backer's going to go into that more in detail. $6 to $7 million since Commissioner Kerry came in. Now, I'll say this much. It is possible. My impression of Commissioner Kerry was this. I think in the first place that he's a thoroughly honest person and I don't think there's anybody in this room who wants to question this. I think that from a technical standpoint he's probably a very highly competent person. He's done construction work all over the world. He has a large construction firm. I have the impression that he is tremendously interested in this job because he really, and I say this in all seriousness, he just couldn't understand the other day how anybody could question this landfill method. He said if they'd only come out and look at it, I know they'd be convinced. And I said to the Commissioner, why don't you tell your story? Well, the Commissioner Kerry isn't a politician. He doesn't talk as much as... In that department. Ten minutes. Mr. President, I'm there. I only wish and hope and trust that Councilman Strauss takes the great interest in the Rules Committee as he does on the floor of this council. Now, I'm chairman of that Rules Committee and we didn't know we want an investigation. Oh, we didn't want this. And oh, we want that. We did argue that pro and con for over an hour. He did suggest that it ought to go to Commissioner Hoylums. But in the judgment of the majority of Rules Committee, we figured it ought to go to an investigating committee of this council, composed of members of this council. I have the highest regard in the world for Commissioner Kerry. He's a grand engineer and there's nobody who doubts his honesty. No member of that committee, Mr. Cypress, or nobody else. And I want Mr. Strauss to know that. But once again, in the Rules Committee, I hope and trust as a member of that committee that old Bob Strauss does put his energy into it and bring out the good points in there and not out here. Mr. Well, Mrs. Earle was on her feet first of all the three. Chairman. Mrs. Earle. I don't want to appear as one who is voting against investigations of any executive department, any administrative department of this city government. I have voted against several of the investigations so far because, in my opinion, at no time was any evidence presented to me to prove that the investigation was necessary. Now, I feel very jealous of the reputation of this council and I feel very proud that the council has this extended power of investigation. At the present moment, looking at our own calendar, we have pending four or five investigations. I know that some of them are in the court. but I think that we could make ourselves and continue to make ourselves look ridiculous if we keep inaugurating all these investigations. To begin with, we haven't the number of people in this council to do any of these jobs simultaneously and to do them well. Secondly, we have a great many laws and regulations, bills and regulations and resolutions in committee and I think we ought to do that's our job first to get our laws out and get them passed. Furthermore, Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that if the fair thing to do if any member of this council or any committee of this council is sincere in an investigation is to present alleged charges to the commissioner of that department first, secure his answer and then if the answer is not acceptable, go ahead with the investigation and I will vote for it. Now I know from my own information that two of the charges in Mr. Surplus' bill of particulars are not so. They could be very easily found out, the truth of those could have been found out by five minutes. If the others are of the same caliber, then I think we're wasting our time and a great deal of money to have an investigation at this time. I will vote for this investigation with great willingness if first, Mr. Surplus will send this bill of particulars to the commissioner and let's hear what he has to say about these various points. I think that any commissioner and any department who are served with a list of charges that is contained in the resolution which asked for this investigation would immediately demand an investigation so that he could clear himself and his department of the very serious charges enumerated in that resolution. Now, I've been hearing for some months some very ugly rumors about the conduct of the sanitation department. And I think we owe it to the sanitation department as well as to the city council to see whether or not there is anything in those rumors. Now, I object very strenuously to the city council turning over its powers to other departments of the city administration. And for that reason I agree with the rules committee which turned down the offer to have Mr. Hurlins investigate the sanitation department. As I understand it he's trying to investigate about everything else in the city of New York and this may be just a little bit too much for him. so I think that we can handle this matter ourselves and I think that this committee should be appointed and if there is nothing wrong in the state of the sanitation department the committee will so find and if there is we want to know it and we should pass the resolution. Mr. Bakker was on his feet at the same time as Mrs. Earl and Mr. Shanzer. Mr. President this investigation is demanded on a series of charges about 13 in number which are made against the department and against Commissioner Carey personally. Now in attending to an investigation we must be giving a little louder it's utterly impossible to hear him over here. I'm sorry we just can't hear him. I'll try to speak with it. Now this demand for an investigation is based upon substantially based upon some 13 charges which are put forward in more or less a preamble to the resolution. And I was a little bit surprised to hear the chairman of the rules committee say that the committee had nothing particular against Commissioner Carey and that they felt he was an honest and capable man. When in reading the charges upon which the investigation is based or the demand for investigation and an appointment of committee is based I find the following. Whereas Commissioner Carey has exhibited a painful lack of cooperation with and in fact at times has been arrogant contemptuous and indifferent to the various groups that have complained to him and so forth and then here whereas many grave charges have been made against Commissioner Carey and various subordinates involving irregularities, illegalities, waste, favoritism, collusion, fraud, deceit, incompetence and maladministration concerning which it would be well in the interest of fair play have Commissioner Carey appear. On the basis of that statement Mr. Chairman, will the gentleman yield to one question? Didn't they charge him at the last no call? John. John. John. John. But it's rather difficult after that characterization in the charge to speak of Mr. Carey or the Commissioner as a gentleman, estimable gentleman who is perfectly honest personally and then base a desire to investigate him on such a charge as this. Seems to me that there's a certain lack of sequence in the charge and in the result it's arrived at by the Committee and then their characterization of the Commission. But Mr. President, an investigation is a serious thing and before it is undertaken it seems to me that those portions of it that can be cleared up in Committee which is the business of a legislative body might well be dispensed with and that when the charges are without substance that it ought not therefore to be necessary to appoint a committee and to begin a laborious and well highly publicized and costly investigation. Let's for example take something that could so easily have been found out and that is a charge concerning a park over in Brooklyn I've forgotten for the moment its name Baisley Park in Queen I mean Queen's excuse me Baisley Park and it says here that whereas the dumping of garbage in the section known as Baisley Park and Cornell Park in Queensboro has caused such a contamination of the water supply system that the city's Jamico water pumping station has had to be closed and 35 private wells in the Cornell section have been condemned now it seems to me the very slightest bit of investigation on the part of the rules committee would have found indicated that these wells were closed some 18 months before the department began dumping in that location and moreover Commissioner Moses asked that that landfill be made but it seems to me that disposes of a charge one that's quite serious one which if it were provable would demand that the Department of Sanitation changes its entire philosophy in making landfills in those portions of the city where it is liable to contaminate the water supply Mr. President most of this investigation is directed against the personal character of Commissioner Carey and that portion of it which is not relates itself to the question of landfill now there is no reason on earth to investigate the Department of Sanitation in order to arrive at a result as to whether incineration or landfill as the method best used for the disposal of garbage no investigation of that department will yield that result it means an investigation into two techniques of garbage disposal which can be done without a committee investigating the private life of Mr. Carey and so forth Mr. President we ought not to vote for this investigation until it is broken down and made reliable of 13 charges contained in the preamble to this resolution seven of eight of them are disposable by merely questioning the Commissioner they are questions of fact which are easily ascertainable the rest may find just one side and ask that his character be investigated that he is in charge with deceit fraud illegality that are possibly mentionable under the character under the well under what under Webster's dictionary possibly and then say that they who are willing to substantiate these charges far enough to have an investigation believe him not to be that man I ask Mr. President that the members of this council vote not to have an investigation that they refer this request again to the rules committee and have that committee in the course of its business investigate those of these charges which have some substance and if it's at the end of a reasonable length of time they do believe that those need further investigation beyond the powers of the rules committee in the regular course of its business that they then come and apply for a investigating committee into the department of sanitation Mr. President Mr. Newton no Mr. Sharkey was I'm afraid I'll have to accuse the other side of the house of filibustering since we retained here at 1030 they have made 21 speeches to 10 for this side now in spite of the fact that Mr. Strauss and Mr. Backer are trying to minimize these charges I feel that the committee or Mr. Sapless hasn't told we'll say the half of it I think just like a good football team before the big game they're withholding their bag of tricks because I have a copy of the presentment of the grand jury in this matter and I've taken the trouble to wade through it and if half if only half of what the grand jury reports in this matter is true the scandal emanating from this thing will turn this town right on its ear I believe Mr. Nugent is up this far if you answer President Nugent I just take up a few minutes of your time in the council I once again say that the chairman of rules thinks Commissioner Carey is honest to the core a wonderful gentleman and as I said in my remarks before the majority of the rules wanted an investigation committee and the chairman of the rules went along with it I still say that Carey is A number one I just like to answer Mr. Nugent I just like to answer Mr. Nugent I just like to answer Mr. Nugent I just like to answer Mr. Nugent I just like to answer how could you possibly describe to that horrible indictment which Mr. Surplus has drawn up did you read the indictment tell me truthfully did you read it and you still say Mr. Carey is A number one well I'll have to leave you to Mr. Carey I can't understand Mr. President Mr. Bellis was on his feet before Mr. President Bellis members on this side of the house are fully aware of the responsibility that devolves on them because of that investatory power that we have before exercising it all we ask is that the commissioner be given an opportunity to do what the council did here with Mr. Kenneth Dayton to come here before the council and to answer these specific charges now I know that some of these charges are a matter of opinion based on honest differences of opinion as to judgment on how the things should be done but certainly I would say at least 90% of the charges could be easily cleaned up here with a direct request and an answer from the commissioner now why isn't that simple request a suggestion on our part followed it seems to me that certainly a department involving as many employees a department that has as great a job as the department of sanitation has certainly ought to be given the same courtesy that the police department has and I want to call to the attention of the council the fact that there is a growing tendency to create special committees of investigations and to date we have some seven of those very shortly we're going to have more of these committees than we have of regular standing committees and I say you can't do both jobs and do them properly I say you can't carry on a series of political investigations into every one of these departments and there isn't any question but that you can raise some serious questions about all of them which on their face look serious enough to warrant an investigation now I know the hour is late and if we're given the assurance that this matter can be laid over till the next meeting in which time Commissioner Carey will appear here and answer these questions we agree to terminate the debate right here and now but if not Mr. President we would like to have this matter threshed out because I disagree with Mr. Strauss here this is a very important question the question of investigating a entire department is a real serious question and I think before this council takes any action on it we certainly ought to have all of the facts I thought that was the implication may I ask Mr. Chairman through you whether the vice chairman would agree to the suggestion made that this matter be laid over because of the lateness of the hour to give the commissioner of sanitation an opportunity to come here and answer just as the police commissioner is going to do and as the budget director did today and cleared up a couple of misunderstandings Mr. Stashmore can that be done? I don't believe Mr. Bellis that that can be done in the first place in the second place I don't believe it's fair for this council to invite commissioner carry here in the open if commissioner carry is innocent of these charges I would be the last man in the world to ever want to bring commissioner carry before this council on the air I make certain accusations and charges and the answers may not be heard if he is cleared it may be cleared in the advertising column of some newspaper mr. cashmore your first answer was sufficient apparently it can't be done I can say for the commissioner right here and now that he would welcome the opportunity on the air otherwise or any other arrangement that you want to answer these questions just one other thing if I may say it at this time I'll guarantee to every member of this council that commissioner carry will be given every opportunity behind closed doors and if commissioner carry can prove himself to be an honest able efficient commissioner of sanitation of the city of new york I'll be the happiest man here tonight to stand up and praise him from the roof down my only answer is to that suggestion that we're not investigating commissioner carry we're supposedly according to this resolution investigating the sanitation department and if they're going to do a good job as I think the committee can and is very anxious to do a good job they will probably subpoena records and go into rather thoroughly the questioning of various other employees all to the detriment and to the great prejudice of the department and those people who are going to rely on that department for work now I'd like to refer if I may to the resentment that we hear so much about which the grand jury in Brooklyn was supposed to have handed out which seriously indicted now you're speaking for the sanitation a few minutes ago you were speaking for the whole minority will you please get down to the discussion here the grand jury presentment we've all read it's been in the newspapers in the Brooklyn editions a half a dozen times it's been discussed on this floor it was discussed in the committee it was discussed in the committee this is going to be a contest to see who can be talked to death well let's have an open contest of it and everybody get into it I appreciate very much Mr. Chairman the friendly advice by Mr. Keegan but I think I'm talking directly to the point because that presentment has made a part of the resolution upon which the majority of the committee suggests an investigation and whether you read it or whether the other members read it apparently they're misquoting it and I think in fairness to those who haven't read it they ought to have a couple of these matters called to their attention the entire presentment do I understand that the rules of the council limit debate to ten minutes by any member that's correct councilman that the rules permit a member of the council to debate for ten minutes and two minutes on a roll call but in view of the fact that the president of the council since half past one today has given permission without interruption for any member of the council to speak as long as they want I do not feel at this time that I should enforce any gag law that's right and therefore Mr. President therefore Mr. President may I move at this time that the rule limiting debate to ten minutes be abrogated for this meeting and the meeting to follow do I hear objection all right rule number ten is temporarily devout I'm overwhelmed by the courtesies Mr. Chairman if I may proceed fellow citizens fellow New Yorkers and the radio audience everywhere you're listening to an extra session of the New York City council disposing of several matters including the capital budget and other matters before the council and matters that they have not reached as yet such as the county reorganization bills this is the municipal broadcasting system New York City's own station WNYC councilman Deloes is now discussing the matter before the house the matter of investigation of the department of sanitation of the city of New York Mr. Sharkey however is speaking from the floor on the matter of special privilege I'm going to read parts of this presentment it's unfair he should read the entire presentment fine I'll read the entire presentment on Sharkey's point is not well taken councilman fellas will continue county of New York city and state of New York the August 1936 term of King's County Grand Jury held over by the Honorable Franklin Taylor to investigate the dirty conditions of Brooklyn Street respectfully submit the preliminary report of activities as of October 31st 1936 may I have a little order Mr. Chairman please I'm getting it all enough I appreciate I think the least the members can do is walk out quietly in an effort to fix the responsible sessions were held in the central court building on 36 days and 184 witnesses were examined as a body they toured 45 miles of main thoroughfares and small groups and private cars have visited all sections of the borough an inspection has been made of various garages repair shops motor equipment district offices all right councilman Spelman will state his point of order all right there are not 14 members seated in this council the chair will instruct the sergeant arms then to ask the councilman to take their seats may I point out as a majority lever minority leader that a member of your group desired that councilman Bellis read the entirety of that paper and he started to do it and the members of your group walk out of the room maybe they didn't fill them bus but they went away from it too bad some photographers wasn't here to witness that action now let them stay in you're the chairman bring them back I'm the acting president now well all right then you've got more cars see they do come back then mr. chairman the sergeant at arms will instruct the members both of the coalition group and the democratic party to kindly take their seats and you can give them the assurance that I'm not going to read the present mr. chairman you can take it on my assertion as a responsible member of this body here that that presentment in no way either criticizes or condemns commissioner carey or the department of sanitation it simply calls attention to the fact that as far as brooklyn is concerned the department is under manned it needs additional equipment and if anything it substantiates the statement made by commissioner carey that he's trying to do the best job he can with the limited resources and funds that he does have however I do want to call attention to a few other remarks contained in that resolution and one in particular I refer you to the whereas clause which says that because of some new contraptions some new machinery ladies gentlemen mr chairman i remember way back in high school a little quotation in spanish there are none so blind as those who do not want to see you can call for all the order you want they're not interested in hearing the facts but i think i have a right to present them to those members on this side who are interested in hearing and for the record will councilman stout can he take his seat mr fellis will you yield to councilman i'll be through in about three minutes if they give me a chance no question no not right now i referred to that portion of the whereas clause concerning the additional machinery that they put on back of a truck and the impression we get is that men working on the streets have been maimed their legs and arms have been caught in that contraption and it's working out a great hardship not only on the employees but on the city itself the proof of the pudding is and the fact of the matter is that that additional machinery on there has cut out the workman compensation bill that the city has had to pay in years past because of hernias and ruptures that the men were caused to undergo because they had to lift those cans and the fact of the matter is that you can check back in the department the industrial commissioner the workman's compensation board to date there hasn't been one serious accident as a result of that machinery and as a matter of fact it has reduced by almost 80% the number of ruptures that the men used to get because they had to lift those old cans up to high old fashioned trucks there are several other important items in there all as I say which can be answered by a direct statement by the commissioner and I say that if we're going to go through with an investigation we ought to go through it only when we're convinced that there is an investigation needed and the least they can do is to give the commissioner the opportunity to come here and give an explanation in a better fashion than I have been given an opportunity to do that Mr. Chairman will is recognized Mr. Chairman I am going to be very short I don't like to speak so early in the morning but they say the early bulb catches the worm now I am interested in a part of the report made by my friend Mr. Sutlis when he speaks of the danger of a uniform racket he didn't mention the word racket but we don't know whether it is there or not I am interested because I went through two uniform rackets in this city already now I am not very well acquainted with the whole setup of the uniform of the employees of the Department of Sanitation I do not know anything about the World's Fair insignia that they have to put up and I do not know anything about the 15 pushes a half an hour more that Mr. Sutlis speaks of however I have received reports from individuals that they find in the Department of Sanitation poor labor practices that employees do not have the proper right to trial that they do not have the right to take along people to represent them that they do not have the right to join a bona fide labor organization that men are fired for various infractions of the rules without giving them the chance to defend themselves now I believe that Commissioner Carey is prepared to face all this I am not in possession of any affidavits or any material I am promised affidavits and I am promised material I do not believe that Commissioner Carey wants to be questioned behind closed doors if his department is run as he says it is he will be prepared to go before the public and on the radio and answer the questions if it is not we are going to find out but I believe we should delay this matter to give Commissioner Carey a chance to come here and let the councilman ask questions and produce affidavits and produce proofs the councilman I imagine by this time that everybody is pretty well convinced that if there is any filibustering being done here in the city council it is being done on the other side now with reference to this proposition according to what members of the minority have been saying here tonight or this morning it would seem as though if we were to adopt the report of the committee on rules it would be tantamount to our acceptance of these allegations in charge as the 13 mentioned by Mr. Backer as though they were true and based on fact as a matter of fact the report that we ought to vote on is a report on the committee on rules in favor of adopting a resolution for this purpose for the appointment of a committee to make a comprehensive survey and investigation of the Department of Sanitation for the purpose of preparing remedial legislation now in view of those charges that are made although as far as I'm concerned and in my opinion there is nothing here before the council or before any committee to indicate that they're true except that those charges are made I don't see how the council can do anything else but perform its duty under section 43 of the city charter I think that if I vote in favor of the adoption of this report I don't know what the commissioners are found facts and founded on reality or whether they are mere imaginative workings of somebody's mind if the commissioner were here I'm sure that he would feel the same way as I do that in view of the fact that there has been publicity given to the 13 charges here that he should be given the opportunity of showing that they are not founded on any true fact and so for that reason I think that the other side is not arguing very logically or with any degree of common sense and believing that an adoption of the report of this committee would be tantamount to the acceptance of these 13 charges as being true and I know that as far as I'm concerned and I imagine as far as any others who will vote in favor of this report are concerned we will wait until this investigating committee gets all the facts and then hands down its report and indicates what immediate legislation is necessary will the councilman yield our question continue these charges were purely capricious charges without foundation you would still be willing to say that just because they were made an investigation were necessary if I knew as a positive fact that the charges were purely capricious were made because of spite or venom or personal selfishness on the part of any individual or organization I certainly would be against voting in favor of the report which indicates but I see nothing at the present time so far brought to me or brought even to the committee on rules to indicate that they are true or untrue all I know is that certain citizens of this city demand an investigation and that this body has been given that right under section 43 but it seems to me you're evading my question my question is directed to this point we have a certain legislative responsibility and we have certain investigatory powers vested in us by virtue of the fact that we are the county now before we can give weight to any charges it seems to me they must be subject to the rule of reason if they are capricious if they are easily provable as to have no substance it seems to me that it's up to us to dismiss them this is our right as the legislative body or an investigatory one we may not accept at face value every charge that is made in my presentation asking you not to vote for this committee of investigation I went to some lengths to prove that several of these charges were easily disprovable on their face and that many others would before a reasonable fair-minded group be able to find themselves without substantiation and that they could therefore be dismissed and that when a committee is appointed to investigate them they do give a certain dignity to those charges they do indicate that they are not capricious that they are not easily provable to be unsound and unfounded and that is the charge that I made is that a question you're asking for our statement point of order Mr. President as far as I've been able to understand you during the last three minutes that you've been asking me that one long question you haven't yet said that these charges are capricious you've said there are certain charges that you think are unfounded but you haven't said anything about other charges that are there now I say to you let us investigate and let's find out I don't know if you can prove to me now that every one of those 13 charges is unfounded I'll vote against receiving the report unless the president councilman chancellor is recognized I don't know whether the commissioner is that representative representation and personification of virtue and of probity that some have represented him here this evening to be nor do I know whether or not the numerous charges that have been made against him are true or not I'm interested in a regular and proper manner to find out there's been a great deal of talk about the number of investigations that we have on well the only two investigations that the council has of any departments are the committee to investigate station WNYC and the committee on the relief investigation and the latter has not started as yet because of obstruction on the part of the board of estimates theSupermanиля the in the city of New York under the present administration. I think we have had enough talk on the subject and I move the previous question. Uh, will, uh, Councilman Chanty and the Councilman break? No, I'm in favor of the resolution. All right, I have a question. The Clay can call the roll. Armstrong, Sacker, Baldwin. We take advantage of the roll call in order that we may ask the radio audience to kindly refrain from telephoning the radio station in as much as the telephone calls go through an important city department that has other duties besides those of broadcasting. And there have been times this evening when the entire telephone service of that department has been considerably tied up and hampered. We realize our obligation to service to the people of the city of New York, but we ask you to kindly be guided by the broadcast and not interrupt the telephone service of the building. And kindly bear with us because the special meeting of the Council will come to you in every way that is possible to bring it to you as it proceeds, and we have no authority whatever to deliver a message to a Councilman or to ask the Councilman to come to a telephone inasmuch as he cannot leave the floor while the Council is in session. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System, New York City's own station, WNYC. All right. Reporting without recommendation, a local law to amend local law number 23 of 1938, entitled A local law to amend the Administrative Code of the City of New York in relation to raising revenue for the purpose of relieving the people of the City of New York from the hardships and suffering caused by unemployment and the effects thereof, and the public health and welfare by imposing a tax upon sales of cigarettes in the City of New York, to enable such cities to defray the cost of granting unemployment work and home relief in relation to a period of time to enrich such tax shall be paid. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion for adoption? Move for adoption. Mr. Baldwin holds second. Mr. Baldwin holds second. Mr. Darrell second. The mayor of Marshall that said the bodies will cause it to the legislature.jects regular fazendo something. is open for a motion to adopt or to move the local law. Is there any discussion? No, sir. Call the roll. May I ask you, do you have the adoption of the report, Mr. President? No, adoption of the local law was moved by and called them. Wait, just one moment. Is the resolution, or rather is the report of the committee adopted? What? Is the report of the finance committee adopted? Has it been read? Mr. President, I believe we have before the council at the present minute the report of the finance committee without recommendation regarding the cigarette tax. I believe that's the motion to adopt the report. Mr. Vice Chairman. Yes, Mr. White. You can't possibly see people with a report, give them a tax. I know that. It's bringing revenue. No, no, no. If you adopt the report, then the floor is open for a motion to adopt the local law, proposed local law. I've never seen this. Mr. Baldwin has moved for the adoption of the local law, and the motion is before the council. I withdraw the motion and let him move to adopt the report. Let's get that over with. Mr. President, the committee's report was read. And the report of the committee is to the effect that the proposed local law be submitted to the council without recommendation. First of all, I ask for the adoption of the committee's report. Mr. President, you just set a precedent here a few hours ago. You adopted first the Finance Committee report on the capital outlay budget. And after you adopt the committee report, then you act on the cigarette tax. The motion in favor of Mr. Kinsley's on the adoption of the Finance Committee's report. Is there discussion? If not, is there a second? If no discussion, call the roll. Trump's wrong. Macca? If not, I will. I will. I will. I will. I will. Baldwin. Aye. Fellas. Bork. Aye. Carroll. Aye. Christensen. Aye. Conrad. Deering. Aye. Dave Giovanni. Aye. Mrs. Earl. Aye. Hollander. Aye. Keegan. Aye. Mr. Hollander. Aye. Keegan. Aye. Kinsley. Aye. McCarty. Aye. Ninfo. Nugent. Will. Aye. Quinn. That's right. Aye. Chanser. Aye. Chick. Aye. Shockey. Aye. Spellman. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Mr. Frost. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Chairman. The chair announces that the motion to adopt the report is carried by a vote of how many in the affirmative? 24 to 24. 24 in the affirmative, 2 in the negative. Mr. Baldwin? Mr. President, I now move the adoption of the resolution. Of the local law? Local law. Is there a second? Is there a discussion? It's not on the bill, but I would like to ask the gentleman who voted no on the report How they might expect to get the bill before the House at this moment if they didn't vote on the report? Well, just forgive them. The bill is before the council now. Is there a discussion? Call the roll on the adoption. Mr. Blonstrock, wait a minute. Wait a minute. What kind of a game is this? This is one of the most important things. You want to spend a little discussion? I asked if there was discussion, Mr. Kinsley. Oh, one thing, one two. Wait a minute now. You didn't even give anybody a chance to answer. You did. Oh. Okay, you have to sign it. You got to talk on it. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. I'm ready to yield any further pressure. All right, Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. I'm ready to yield any further pressure. Mr. Kinsley. I'm ready to yield any further pressure. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley. I'm ready to yield any further pressure wants to discuss this. Mr. President, a pint of water. Are you yielding? Sir, isn't it? I just was going to say, I don't think that we should be required to hear one of Mr. Kinsley's daylight speeches at this time of night. No, Mr. Kinsley doesn't want to give you a daylight speech, gentlemen. Give him a nightcap speech. I only wish I could make a noise, Mr. Kinsley. I wish I could make a nightcap speech that would properly put you to bed to rest with no unpleasant dreams. He's in the... I mean, the president is not suffering from one of those temporary states of amnesia. It's a permanent state, gentlemen. Now this question coming at this late hour is really ridiculous. We had thrown at us in the early part of this discussion a budget entailing the outlay of $139-odd million. We're now asked to vote in the same day upon a question involving $4 million, which might... And if we do not vote it, we are told it's going to cut the allotment of relief for the needy of the city of New York. And when we get through with this, we're going to vote on $350,000 of useless jars for political hacks and clubhouse loafers. Right. Boy, we're getting down in figures though, aren't we? Right. Gentlemen, I voted for this bill when it was originally presented in June of this year. I voted for it in good faith. As chairman of the Finance Committee, I may say I cast the deciding vote because you on that side of the House thought so little of your chances of passing it that you got Mr. Vladek out of a sick bed to come down here to cast the 19th vote. At that time, I was practically assured that a council investigation of the Administration of Relief would be had. I thought at that time that when the Finance Committee completed its work on the bill that it was assured that the money appropriated for relief would be used for the relief of the destitute and not merely to build up jobs, not for clubhouse loafers, but for those who happen to know Mayor LaGuardia and his henchmen. Do you realize that we struck appropriation from every relief bill in the sum of $500,000, as well as merely for the supervision and the accounting work in the monies collected for relief? Do you know that we told the Comptroller and the Treasurer that we were not opposed to proper supervision? But we demanded that the Council receive a budget in advance of every dollar they spent? Gentlemen, at this late hour, it is not too late to remind ourselves that before any taxes levied, A budget is set up so that the expenses we are going to be met, going to have to meet, are known in advance. But in this case, it seems that under the guise of relief taxes, we're not only appropriating money in the sweet name of charity, but we are giving carte blanche to the supervising officers thereof to take as much money as they want therefrom to use to build up a political machine. I say that I voted for the original tax bill in good faith. But our good friend, the Comptroller, Mr. Joseph McGoldrick, a few weeks ago, naively, in his kindly fashion, presented to us a report which blandly stated that due to the Bretter accounting system, which he had installed at a cost of $400,000 annually, he had insured a greater income he had received. He merely set it down at a figure of $5,230,000. I thought I was going to save the committee's time by asking him personally, in the presence of the chief officer of the division responsible for this, how much of that money is due to the tax on meals and liquor served in restaurants? How much of it is due to the proper supervision? He hasn't given me an answer yet, though he promised it. And I asked him specifically, by what authority of law do you obtain authority to use $400,000 annually, without any accounting to the council, without any authority in law? And he said, I have a corporation counsel's opinion to that effect, and I will furnish it to you. Up to the moment of the writing of this report, and up to this minute, Mr. McGoldrick, nor Mr. Cunningham of his office has not given me, nor the members of the committee, nor this council, any statement, whatever, to justify the throwing away of money such as he described. Now, gentlemen, I'm through with this proposition of get the money up, and we'll spend it for you. I'm not going to see any needy person starve. God knows I voted often enough to prove that. But I've come to a place where I must make a decision once and for all, where we must stop with the needless expenditures of money. I'm sick and tired of seeing people coming in and riding themselves into a job paying more than a man in private business and on the civil service payroll can command, merely because he knows somebody in the proper administrative office to get a job. Now, there's been a lot of accusations cast around about the maladministration of relief. And we've heard lots of whitewashed stories to meet it. Mr. Surplus, a few months ago, introduced the resolution with which I went along. Mr. Surplus brought to a head many accusations which had been made against the administrative relief. But the mayor saw fit to prevent that investigation getting underway. Not only did he see fit to order the men in the department under his control to refuse to obey subpoenas, but he took it to the Supreme Court, and as usual being beaten there, he took it to the appellate division, and he was beaten there, and now he's trying to get permission to go to the Court of Appeals. The mayor must be a Tommy Faw. He's beaten, but he always comes back. I voted in all good faith for the cigarette pipe. But I assure you, gentlemen, that though I do feel that we should do everything that is possible, everything that is required for those who need assistance, nevertheless we must get up on accounting sometime through those who furnish the money. And if the situation in this wonderful Department of Welfare is as wonderful as Mr. LaGuardia would have us believe, why does he fear even Mr. Surplus making an investigation? Why does he fear an investigation even by the devil? I reported this bill out, or rather I made the motion to report this bill out without recommendation, so it could be discussed on the floor. But I must say to you gentlemen, frankly, I've heard enough wool now on this subject to make me decide that I'm going to stop now until you get up an honest answer to proper questions, and for that reason I'm going to vote against this bill. Mr. President, I'm speaking on your motion. From the first attack on the cigarette pipe was called, the mayor of this city sent a special message to the council. And in addition to sending that message to the council, we found that in the city of New York, the recipients of relief were cut 10% of their allotment or allowance. And the mayor claimed that it was necessary to make this deduction because the city of New York did not have the finances with which to pay these recipients of relief. He claimed that it was necessary for the city to get additional revenue for relief purposes. And in his message to the council, he asked for this bill to be placed for a two-month period. In speaking against the cigarette tax at that time, I think if you refer to the record, I made the statement that these temporary bills that were put on for a short period of time had an uncanny way of becoming permanent. And when the bill was presented before the council here, I thought that there was sufficient evidence introduced to show that it was not necessary to place this burden upon the storekeepers of this community in order to finance this relief program. Consequently, I voted against the bill. Consequently, I voted against the bill. Two months later, in spite of the promise of the mayor that it was just a temporary measure, this bill was reintroduced into the council for a further period of six months. Several men on the floor of the council said they would go along for the six-month period, but that would be the end of it. We were again told that it was a necessary bill to produce revenue to continue the administration of relief. There was a hearing held, and the director of the relief for the city of New York, before a committee assembled in this room, admitted that there was a waste of 24 millions of dollars in the administration of relief. Subsequent to that, Mr. Sturplet has produced a resolution to investigate relief. As Mr. Kinsley has pointed out, that resolution and that bill to create that investigating committee has been opposed by every legal means that the little flower knows about. But it proves one thing conclusively to me, and that is, since the $24 million of waste existed six months ago, and that since today there has been no definite proof that that $24 million of waste has been corrected, that this money is no more necessary today than it was when the bill was first introduced. Now let's consider the people who are paying this tax. Now let's consider the people who are paying this tax. The tax was to be one cent on a package of cigarettes. The proponents of the bill said that that would be absorbed by the buying public. Now there's not a man in this room that doesn't know that the small storekeeper is absorbing that tax. Any man who buys cigarettes knows that he can go into any cigar store and the tax is absorbed by the man selling the cigarette. It's not spread among the people. And these storekeepers find it absolutely impossible to continue paying this tax and remain in business. Now this isn't a weeping story. In Queens County, we're on the borderline there. In Nassau County, just across the street from some of these shopkeepers, they can get cigarettes without paying any city tax. The storekeepers in Queens County make it manifest and plain that this tax is an imposition. Now let's go a little further. We find that the people getting on relief are told by I don't know who they are to join the Workers' Alliance. And the Workers' Alliance exacts from these recipients of relief 25 cents. I don't know whether it's a month or a week. But that 25 cents from every person joining up with the Workers' Alliance is coming out of the taxpayers' pockets of the city of New York. And while the Workers' Alliance continues to function in the city of New York, any councilman with red blood in his veins will refuse to appropriate any money at this time for this tax. And I certainly hope that any councilman here and every councilman will vote against him. Any further discussion? The acting majority leader? Mr. Baldwin. I don't think, Mr. President, that anyone wants to increase the taxes or to vote for this tax or any other tax. I don't think that there's anyone in this board that doesn't realize that we've got to take a stand on the whole tax structure and financial structure of the city. In the not far distant future, the Comptroller himself has so warned us. But the revenue produced by this tax, whatever else it's doing as a sideline, is providing the money for the relief of the unemployed. And there is a member of this council that doesn't know that no matter what is done that is wrong in some instances, that there is a great deal of good done by the Relief Administration. And just go into their clubhouses or go into their districts and they'll know that that is true. Now, I appeal to the common senses of this council. We have this tax. It has brought more money than we thought it would bring. It has not been as painful as many of us thought it might be. I don't think it's the most ideal tax in the world, but I've never yet found an ideal tax. And I think that it would be a hideous travesty at Christmas time to even open the door to anyone for a stoppage of relief at this time. I sincerely hope that the both sides of this House in this season will vote to continue this tax. Let's have the investigations if you want. But don't let stop relief because that's just what's going to happen and you'll be playing into the hands, perhaps, of some of those who would like to make political capital out of any action that we might take along the lines suggested by some of my friends here tonight. This is a tax that provides money that is actually necessary to carry on the relief load of this city at this time. If a percentage of it is wasted, if a percentage of it is badly applied, that is no excuse for us to stop all of it because the large amount of it is properly applied. We can sit down and find out where the wrongdoing is later on. I sincerely hope, Mr. President, that this motion will prevail. Mr. President, I just want to do a very great conversation on this proposal. I just want to repeat what I said in the Finance Committee the other day. In the first place, I don't feel that the setup under this tax is the final setup. It certainly is not the most desirable one, and I don't think that anybody here feels that it is. We hope very much that the state legislature in Albany will take a little more interest in our problem here in the financing of relief than they have taken in the last year, and that some action will be forthcoming in the next six months in Albany to substitute some state taxes or to give us some more money from the state budget than we are getting now. That can be done in a number of ways, and I won't go into that now. Personally, I feel that there's one item in the release budget that Commissioner Hudson has submitted, which is not satisfactory to me, and I feel that the closing item, which is approximately $3 million during the next year, as Commissioner Hudson's estimate, is too low. And I just want to mention that because I don't think that we can do anything about it right now. Here, there's enough opposition to even this one-cent tax, and we'd have to raise this tax to two cents a package of cigarettes to really tackle this problem. But I hope very sincerely that something will be done in Albany, and done very soon, in the month of either January or February. And perhaps if action is taken there, we will be in a position to reconsider any action we may take tonight. Mr. Vice Chairman. Mr. President, Five years ago, in September, the mayor of the city of New York was John P. O'Brien. A good part of my life, I have been interested in politics, and I always wanted to see what somebody who would make rash promises could do if he were elected. But I never hoped that it would happen in the city of New York. I always wanted to see it in some other part of the country, just to see how it truthfully and sincerely worked out. Five years ago, last September, we had a great mayor, Mayor O'Brien. And at 11 o'clock, one evening in this building, down in the other end of the hall, the problem came up in this respect. 1933, the city faced bankruptcy. The city was faced with payday, payless paydays for civil service employees. The banks of the city of New York. The banks of the city refused to cooperate. It meant just one thing. Let's save the city of New York. At that time, John Patrick O'Brien was a candidate running for the office of mayor of this city. The question arose in that office that night, shall I win the election or lose the election? The mayor had the pure, unadulterated nerve to do what probably no man in this council would or could do. On the eve of an election, when it would mean hundreds of thousands of votes, he increased the water taxes. Just think of it. A man who was a politician. A man who knew politics. It didn't even take the gray matter of a county committeeman to know that when he increased these water rates, it meant defeat. But he put the greatest city in the world ahead of an election. His opponent that year was a little bit of a fellow by the name of Fiorello H. LaGuardia. A swell little fellow, but probably the smartest politician that hit this town in 20 years. He's five foot three. You can have him. But I say this. That there was the smart politician who looked out. What is the most important thing? In Cooper Union, he had the nerve to stand up there and say exactly these words. against the city of the city that the taxpayers should be forced to pay an increase in water rates. And if you will vote for me, I will guarantee you will vote for me. I will guarantee you that the first official act I will do will be to rescind this ridiculous increase in water rate. Then let's take another look at one of these speeches. In that same campaign, if I am elected mayor of this city, I will reduce the budget to $100 million. All right, we will cut it in half. $50 million. All right, now let's take a look at the record. The old board of aldermen took the new mayor, who was elected on these promises, a contract with the voters of the city of New York, and they took him at his word. And in this very chamber, legislation was passed, reducing the water rates back to their old level. And then the cute politician came forward and said he didn't quite understand it when he was campaigning. We held investigations here. We had the commissioner of water supply, gas and electricity here. And under the mayor's instructions, and under the mayor's orders, the commissioner of water supply, gas and electricity said, oh, no, he couldn't reduce the water rates now. He needed that money. Now, we had a budget of $545 million. That was the budget when LaGuardia took office. We had a depression. We had no help from Washington, not a nickels worth of help. All we had hanging around the city of New York was the Gibson Committee. And $10 million was an awful lot of money. And that took care of the poor. Well, let's go into it this way. $545 million was the budget then. The mayor was going to reduce this budget $50 million. So instead of a $545 million budget being reduced, this council had to pass a $589 million budget. Just think of it. What a lie to the taxpayer and voter. Now, in this $589 million budget, the mayor didn't even have to put in the bank disagreement this year, which we did have to do in 1934. And that's about $16 million. So the mayor rose and said, what's more? And then we didn't have $76 million worth of additional taxes. We had no sales tax. We had no cigarette tax. What a lot of lies. What a lot of fake promises. Isn't the contract, when you're speaking to the people of the city of New York, legal? When you're asking them to vote for you, and then you promise to do this? Or is it just an insincere, idle gesture? Well, today, we're confronted with a cigarette tax. The fellow on relief today has to be taken care of. He must be taken care of. But he's being fooled. Because every man on relief, who is on relief and has no right to be on relief, is taking it from those who have a right to be on relief. We only asked a reasonable appropriation in this council, $25,000. To try and drive off the fakers and the out-of-towners. To try and send some to jail, who was stealing. And just through political maneuvers, his power of the press fits with him. He's able to again fool and pull the wool over the taxpayers' eyes. Gentlemen, this is sincere. I'm speaking from the heart. This is the taxpayers' money. I'm going to vote for this cigarette tax. Because this council held a public hearing here about six months ago. And after we held the public hearing, and we were well aware of the vast number of protests that came into the Committee on Finance and begged us not to pass it, not to vote for it. It was putting the storekeeper out of business. We voted for it. My sincere and true belief is this. That the Board of Estimates and the mayor must know the problem of the small businessman of the city. It's no more than right that they should know that problem. And who are we to deny them the proper expression as to why this tax is putting them out of business? There's no need of them coming here. The mayor has said so many times, oh yes, so many times, in a great play where he's even wheeled a blackboard into this room. If I'm wrong, I'll take the responsibility. And if I'm right, you gentlemen can have the credit. Now all of you have heard that. I believe that the mayor is wrong, and his entire administration is wrong. They're not doing one thing to cut down the issue. He's not doing the issue. He's clouded the issue. There's your issue. But you'll see this in small lines in the newspaper. In big lines. He knows how to time everything just like Tex Rickard knew how to time a fight. He's clever. He could get himself committed to matter one tomorrow morning with any kind of an act he wanted to put on. And the next day prove he's son of him. He's in the middle of the year. He's a big man. And he was a big man. He's a big man. Now we have here this big red tax. And as I said, I'm going to vote for it. And I'm voting for it under this condition. And I have the agreement, and I am permitted to quote, and I will quote, that Comptroller McGoldrick has guaranteed to me that he has the word of the mayor that a fair and true and sincere hearing will be given by the Board of Estimate and the mayor on the cigarette tax. I believe that's where that hearing belongs. Let those men who are doling out millions hear what our troubles are. Let those men who are causing the expense of this city to be driven up and up and up to know what it's all about. The mayor of this city, and I say this truthfully, has every right to sit in that Board of Estimate. That's where the money is spent. Now let's just see a few other little things so that I don't forget anything. There was a little fellow around here some years ago who got $40,000 a year as mayor. And he gave $15,000 of it to charity. But everybody thought he got $40,000 a year. That young man was James J. Walker, the idol of the city of New York. And then we had a little fellow who was running for office. And Fiorillo Ligardi thought that $40,000 was too much money. $25,000 was ample. That's all he wanted. So then he took the other 15 and he made a deputy mayor. So we're still paying $40,000. Now in those days, we did have a mayor. Your charter says that your deputy mayor is supposed to do some work. Well, Toto died the other day. But we have a new Toto now. Wisecracks galore. All you hear is stories about cockroaches. I'll give you two points in case you lose one. I'll give you two points. What has this got to do? It's got plenty to do to show how the people of the city of New York had been hoodwinked. What did he do about the bald heads? Our doctor Perrin. There's very few men in this council that could have any brains. He forgot one thing. There's an old expression. You never see a bald-headed man in an insane asylum. But he'll be there to break the rule if he keeps it up. So the city of New York is still paying $40,000 for mayor. Only Ligotti is doing the traveling. And Cohen is doing the wise project. Now, Mr. President and members of the council, I'm going to support this cigarette tax. And I do it with this proviso. That there is to be a fair and equitable hearing given to every businessman in this city who is opposed to the cigarette tax. Tomorrow, the Board of Estimate is to set the gate. You're a member of the Board of Estimate. It's up to you to see that they get that square hearing that they're asking for so that they can explain their troubles, show how their business has gone out of existence. And with that, I ask you now to go right ahead and call the roll. Call the roll. We take advantage of the roll call, radio audience, to remind you that you're listening to this extremely remarkable session of the city council, which started at half past 12 this afternoon in the council chamber of the city hall, or I should say yesterday afternoon because it is past midnight and we are in another day. And from all indications, there are still many items to be settled in the calendar that have not come up as yet. And the session is possible to remain through the rest of the night. We would like to have your reaction to this public service if you are taking advantage of it at this hour. And we are particularly anxious to hear from our DX fans, as this may possibly be their first contact with the city of New York in a long time, since we have not been on the air at this time for a long time. And it is also your first peek in on the city council sessions of the city of New York. This is the municipal broadcasting system, New York City's own station, WNYC. Councilman Conrad of Queens is speaking. New York City Channel, Wisconsin Hall, coughs, and Chicago Hall number in the stop this room. They are persping an floor to the city hall in cond Betsy HighIES, not standing on thewhat, IICIS. what Collinville is. New York City, there are other few, there are active organized systems of the city hall, Mr. Quill, now, what was that? Oh, he didn't show up. Now, I am not so enthused about voting for this revenue measure. However, I wish we did not have to vote for it. I wish there was some other way out. I wish we could get revenue from people who could better afford to pay or to foot the bill than the misfortunate people and especially the working people who smoke cigarettes. But I do not see any other way out at this time. And I have learned something at this council meeting. As I say, it is never too late to learn, and since I am very new in the political world, I am learning. I learned from Mr. Cashmore that we have not alone a remarkable mayor, but a great mayor, the greatest mayor that the city of New York ever had up until now. Yes. However, I find out that this will not be enough when we pass it. That in a few months we will be short and very short, and that we must prepare now to raise our voices to see that the state legislature will come across and give us a little more towards helping the unemployed. It is not a pleasant task to make the working people pay all the way through the nose, but we have a million people, or close to a million people in this city who are unemployed, who are in the home relief roles now. They are American workers. They have plenty of the red blood in their veins that we heard about a little while ago. And I see no reason why, especially at this time of the year, when we speak of charity and peace on earth, when we speak of the child of Bethlehem, when we speak of feeding the multitude, when we speak of the days of the loaves and fishes, I see no reason now why any member of this council should be opposed to this tax, since the lack of this revenue will leave homes without food, not alone for the Christmas period, but for the months after. And I say that they can throw all the slugs they want to throw on the Workers' Alliance. The Workers' Alliance will account for their own activities, and I am not commissioned to speak for them. But I do say that if you do not feed the millions, unimplied men and women that you have in the city of New York today, that as a result of their hunger, you unite them. Because when you get that pain in the pit of the stomach, you know, it's uniform. It hits the same, it hits every worker in the same spot, every hungry person in the same spot. And whether they have black blood or white blood or red blood, as long as they are working people, as long as they are hungry, you unite them. And there is a danger that in their hunger and in their unity and in their anxiety to live the same as all of us, that they might decide to march. And if they ever decided to march on a question of give us bread, they might not starve quietly and look at bread inside store windows and look at money rotting in the vaults of the city. So I say that passing this revenue measure is the letter of two evils. In the name of humanity, in the name of Christmas, in the name of justice, in the name of peace, I think this is the same American thing to do. I vote aye. Very beautiful speech. Very beautiful speech. Very beautiful speech. Very beautiful speech. I speak. Very beautiful speech. I think that it was very appropriate at this time, especially in view of the fact that some of the men who were so strenuous in speaking for this measure opposed the sale of Christmas trees. Now I know that Christmas is the birthday of Christ. and every Christian who is worthy of assault realizes that the poor must be cared for. I know the Beatitudes. There's no need to teach me my catechism. And more than that, I profess the faith that I was born with. Exactly right. But we know that today that the city of New York has $12 million collected through this tax on water. Tax collected to help the unemployed. Now when we go to great lengths to explain that the people are going to starve if this isn't passed at the present time, it sounds well over the radio. It might sound well to these people who don't know that the city has this money, but it doesn't mean a thing to me. And it doesn't mean a thing to every man or any woman who knows the true facts of the case. The people aren't going to starve if this measure isn't carried tonight. This revenue won't start until the first of the year, so forget this bunk about Christmas and being hungry for bread at Christmas time. This measure is not necessary according to my way of thinking, and that's only one man's opinion. But I believe that while figures don't lie, sometimes liars figure. And so it's easier to make up a story to explain your vote either way on this thing. But I'm here to protect the interest of the people who are paying for it. Not at the expense of those who really need relief, because in the long run, the real sufferers are those who are most entitled to relief. And when we investigate relief, we will protect those people who are entitled to it. The only way we can force the investigation of relief is by refusing to give the mayor any more funds to carry on relief. And then he won't be so strict in trying to stop the investigation. I'm not against the recipients of relief. I know what it means to have a hungry belly. I wasn't born with a silver spoon in my mouth any more than anybody else in this council. I knew what it meant to be hungry, but I also knew what it meant to go out and earn my own living. And I'm not ashamed of that fact. But there's no man in this council who can stand up and say that I'm against giving to those who deserve it. I don't think the tax is necessary, and I don't think it's the right thing for any councilman to try to drag a red herring across the fact of that. I vote no on this tax measure. Stenza? Chick? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? Chaki? I trust they're not trying to evade this cigarette tax. Now, it's nice to hear Mr. Quill and some of the newcomers telling you about their thought for the needy, their grave concern for the needy. Well, I've been in this chamber for the past six years, and I can remember going along, as Mr. Cashmore told you, with the O'Brien water rates, the increase in the water rates. I thought I was doing the right thing. I was sincere about it. I was a young alderman then, and I stood up in the rear of this chamber, and I read a four-page speech, my first speech, and I took Mr. O'Brien's enemies over the coals. I took a chance on the re-election at that time. As Mr. O'Brien was defeated, so were 17 aldermen at that time. We all took a chance to stand up with the poor and the needy of this city. But after the election, we found that the mayor of this city had promised to return these water rates and was re-elected on that issue. I changed my mind, too. I felt that he was probably right about it. And since then, I've been trying to get this back to the people. But, however, my record in this council has always been that I have never voted against anything that I thought was needed for the poor or the needy. I'm not taking any plea on that. That is my record. And in fear that my voting against this would stop someone from getting needed relief, I'll support the measure. But I feel, as I felt six months ago when I passed it at that time, and felt that probably after six months it wouldn't be needed, that an investigation of the relief would disclose that we could save enough from the relief to evade going into this cigarette tax once more. But I'll support it. I vote aye. I asked me briefly to explain my vote. And I want it clearly understood that in explaining my vote, I'm making no apology for it. When the cigarette tax was originally introduced, we were told that it was a temporary measure. We were given estimates of the amount that it was meant to realize. And about a month and a half later, it was reintroduced for the purpose of raising additional revenues. And at that time, we were given estimates of what it was meant to raise. The second time that the bill was introduced and became law, it was clearly understood that that bill was to run for a period of six months and no longer, unless it were demonstrated that the fears of those who opposed the bill were grounded. Now, it's one thing to want to give relief. It's a subject upon which apparently there's unanimity of opinion here. It's an entirely different thing to refuse to heed the cries of those who will be forced on relief if we continue this tax, which is directed against one group and one group only. The facts, gentlemen, are these. Over 250 dealers have been compelled to close their stores. At the present time, there are many more on the verge of closing. And I think if it comes to a question of giving a Christmas present to those who are not working and are on relief, or to giving another type of Christmas present to those who will force on relief, it requires no apology to refuse to support this measure. I vote no. No. I stated last spring when these bills were up that as long as the mayor persists in obstructing a proper investigation of wastage of public funds which could be used for relief, that I do not intend to vote for any additional tax bill. I said that then, I say it now. I deplore the suggestion tonight by one of the public officials who are in office should not say to a graduating class at St. Lawrence University that if we do have a dictatorship, it will last only for a year or a year and a half. Because when a man says that, he's figuring out how long a dictatorship will last. It tells the rest of us that he's already gotten past the point as to whether there's any doubt that there will be a dictatorship. I speak of these things because I think that after this colleague of ours who unfortunately indulges in our rhetorical exaggeration and makes these what might be called ne plus ultra soapbox speeches which don't get anywhere but only serve to stir up people and arouse un-American ideas, I think after he's been with us and in this country a little bit longer, he may learn that a good American does not incite the riot and anarchy and the use of force against the constituted authorities. I vote tonight as I voted in the spring. I vote no. No. Vice Chairman. Aye. Eighteen in the affirmative. Eight in the negative. The chair announces the local law has adopted. Eighteen in the affirmative. How many in the negative? Eight. Eight in the negative. Wishes to congratulate the council on supporting the only administration in the country that has put relief on a pay-as-you-go basis. The motion is in order for adjournment of the regular meeting. I move that we are joined to meet Monday, January the 2nd at 12 o'clock. Under the charter, the first meeting of the year must be held on the first Monday. All in favor? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Motion is carried. The special meeting recess from two weeks ago to consider the county reorganization bills will come to order. Ask the clerk to call the roll. For the benefit of those who are listening in at this time who may be puzzled that a German was asked for it, may we say that a special meeting was called first at 12.30 this afternoon or yesterday afternoon, I will insist. We've gone over into another day at 12.30 to consider the capital budget. That, however, has taken the 14 1⁄2 hours which have just elapsed since the adjournment was just mentioned by the vice chairman and voted on by the council. That was a special meeting of the city council. The city council now goes into a regular meeting that was postponed from the last meeting on the 6th for the 20th of December to consider the matter of county reorganization. For those listening in who may not be familiar with the idea, there is, of course, a total reorganization of the city government planned in the present and in the future as well. One of the major features of this reorganization of government is the more or less old styles in government and particularly what is considered by some of the obsolete offices of the county government. Mrs. Earle has introduced the bills necessary to bring about this governmental reform and it is now being considered by the meeting of the council which is really meeting at 3 a.m. instead of 3 p.m. on a normal council day of Tuesday. We will stay right with the radio audience and carry through the entire proceedings of the meeting and our next actual broadcast on schedule is 7 o'clock this morning. However, there may be a necessity to run into that scheduled time if, however, the session doesn't conclude within the time specified. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the vice chairman is speaking and may we just identify the station. This is the municipal broadcasting system, New York City's known station WNYC. Mr. Cashmore, the vice chairman. I just want to point that out now because I was presiding when that went into effect. Now, one other thing, if we may, consider all these bills at the same time so as we won't get into any difficulties and some member getting up and say he's speaking on the wrong bill. I consider all the bills at the same time. They're entirely different. All right. We'll debate them all at the same time. Why? I don't follow you. They involve the same general principles. Then you can take a separate vote on each bill at the end of the debate. One member will get up and talk about the sheriff and another member will talk about the public administrator. That's all right. Is that your idea of orderly procedure? Not my idea. It's sensible. Why? It's perfectly nonsensical. How are you going to keep any member of this council when he's speaking on the public administrator's bill from referring to the sheriff's bill or the register or any other bills? Well, can't he talk on the sheriff, on the office of the sheriff at one time? Well, if you want to try it that way, if you'll be responsible for control... I have to do control of the time that's a very intelligent suggestion. All right, there is a second. So, I... I'm sorry. Say, get the ball down. I'll be with it. I'll be with it. Reserve that question for the moment. Mr. Sharkey? Um... ... Oh... I... I... nhưng... ... I'm going to close the door. Everybody. That's it. Do you want it? Do you want it? Do you want it? Do you want it? Do you want it? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. All right, gentlemen. Thank you. I'll follow you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any money here? Thank you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Any money here? That's not before the house. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Quite as well taken as any member of the council move for the adoption of any of these local laws. Mrs. Earl. Mrs. Earl. What local law? Their proposed local law is on what? Mrs. Earl. Mrs. Earl. I'd like to move the adoption of the following county reorganization bills. Numbers 181, 413, C number 176, number 208, C 198, number 229, 414, C 218, number 230, 415, C number 219, number 295-416, C number 288. All right. They have to be seconded. Seconded. Moved and seconded that these bills be adopted. Mr. Sharkey, Mrs. Earl, do you desire to speak for the motion? I'd like very much to speak in favor of these bills. Mr. Sharkey, I think the proponent ought to have the opportunity. Mrs. Earl. Mr. Chairman and members of the council, at this unconscionable hour of 3 o'clock in the morning, I find that the culmination is marked of 40 years of effort in this city of New York to get rid of the vast and unnecessary structure of county government, superimposed for all of these years and back into colonial times on our city government. I'm not going to go over the history of this whole growth and general lack in the later years of the need for county government. But I would like to remind the members here that this fight tonight is not a new issue in New York City. I'd like to remind you, and I'm going to do this very briefly, although I prepared a great deal of material on this meeting tonight, that beginning with consolidation of the greater city of New York in 1898, in order to bring these great numbers of small towns and cities and boroughs into the greater city, county government was allowed to remain more or less untouched. We do remember, and I remember myself very well, the great campaign that was brought before the Constitutional Convention of 1915 to affect the abolition of the unnecessary and archaic county offices. And you all remember that that Constitution of 1915 was defeated. I'm going over this, Mr. Chairman, because I was accused the other day of not having a great interest in this matter, of knowing very little about it, and only being sent into this council by somebody else to fight for county reorganization. It has been one of my great interests for more than 30 years. I hate to admit that I have been interested in anything as long as that. And all of us remember, no matter how young we are, that in 1932 there was an investigation of this city government and the county government by a legislative committee called the Hofstadte Committee, which made very drastic recommendations to the legislature, resulting, as you know, in a special message from Governor Smith to the legislature of 1934, urging them to give the city of New York and all other counties the permission to reorganize their county government. Governor Lehman. Governor Lehman, I beg your pardon, it was Governor Lehman. This brings us down to the 1932 moment that we could abolish the public administrators, that we could abolish the Registers or consolidate them. Nothing has been done. That's six years ago. I will admit we had no power to do anything until 1935. Now I'd like to quote for a moment from something that was said in 1934, 1932, before the investigating committee, called the Hofstadter Committee, on county reorganization and the great necessity for it. You will remember, and everyone in this room remembers, that Governor Smith, who had been sheriff, had this to say about county government. Quote, based upon my experience as sheriff of Kings County, I beg your pardon. I've got Mr. Jacoby, so I'll use that, which is just as good. Mr. Aaron Jacoby. Based upon my experience as sheriff of Kings County, I would say that the office of sheriff as such may well be dispensed with, and its functions assumed by some other departments. At this point, the testimony of Governor Smith is authoritative and vigorous. Quote, he said before the Hofstadter Committee, now we come to the sheriff, and the question will naturally arise, why leave the sheriff? As far as the city of New York is concerned, the sheriff's office is all finished. I was sheriff myself, and I was busy looking for something to do. And if it had not been for the war, and that time I put in selling liberty bonds and war-saving staff, and seeing the boys off, I would have nothing to do. Governor Smith said that. In his message to the legislature, urging that it pass the special laws permitting to New York City to reorganize its five counties, Governor Lehman had this to say, New York City continues to provide for the archaic county government of the five components of the city, and has carried over into the city governmental structure all of the obsolete county machinery. A great many, if not all, of the county functions of the five counties of New York City may well be consolidated into one or more citywide offices. Unquote. Unquote. And again, when the governor addressed the legislature in extraordinary session, he stated, quote, The need for county reform in government is statewide. It is necessary and beneficial for New York City. Too long, in my opinion, the taxpayers have been made to bear an unjustified burden. Too long they have had to pay for inefficiency, waste, and duplication of governmental functions. Too long have they had to pay the cost of maintaining sinecure positions. Unquote. As a result of the action of the state legislature in 1934, a county home rule amendment was offered to the voters of the whole state. It was carried three to one by the voters outside of New York City, and by a vote of four to one in New York City, in favor of permitting the local legislative body, then the Board of Aldermen, to reorganize these useless offices. Admittedly useless by all the testimony that appears in any record in any library which I could consult. I don't think there's any question as to whether or not many of these offices are not useless and cannot be dispensed with. I don't think the point tonight of debate is whether or not these offices are sheriff, public administrator, registers, recorders, whether they need to be retained, but I think the debate tonight will probably be on the message of carrying on the services which these county offices have carried on in the past, and which I hope they will discontinue by January the 1st. Now I think it's only fair that I should give a very brief outline of what my bills propose to do. And I shall take a very few minutes. The bills are before you. They've been in the Council since January 1925, 1928, on the 25th of January. Briefly, the bills are five. The county sheriffs under my bills will be consolidated and will be abolished, and their functions transferred to a new citywide sheriff to be appointed by the mayor for a term of six years. The duties of the sheriff, which relate to the custody and transportation of criminals by one other bill here, which you have in your hands, will be delegated to the Department of Correction, which is the Department of the City Government. The officers of register and commission of record will be abolished, and their functions assigned to a new citywide register, also to be appointed by the mayor. The public administrators will be eliminated, and their powers assigned to the controller. All subordinates in the new officers will be appointed only after taking competitive examinations, and their salaries will be determined by the Board of Estates, just as are the salaries in all other city departments. Now, Mr. Chairman, I have very carefully worked out tables based on the budget for 1938 on the city civil list and on the payrolls of current dates, and I could go over in detail the positions and the salaries of every employee in these county offices, and if it were not after 3 o'clock, I should think it would be my duty to do so. Suffice it to say, however, I should like to take up each of the offices and book the pays and the number of people employed in each of these offices. In the office of sheriffs in the five counties, there are five sheriffs, as you know, and the salaries range from $6,000 in Richmond to $15,000 a year in New York, the Bronx, and King. There are a total number employed in the sheriff's five offices of 394 employees, of which only 12 are in the competitive class. In the exempt class, there are 382 employees. Now in the city government, Mr. Chairman, which has extended to almost 100% its civil service coverage, it seems to me to be anachronism that in these county offices, more than 50% of all the employees are not under civil service. The total personnel service cost in these offices of sheriffs is a little, and by the estimation, of just the top people less than a million dollars in this office, I feel very sure that in this group of offices, the city may very easily save a minimum of $233,000 a year. Now in the office of the time, testimony before three different investigation committees of these five different offices of sheriffs and the offices of registers, but I will not take your time to do that, although I think it would be only a fair way to present the arguments in favor of this bill. In the office of register of four different counties, we have a total number of employees of 404. In the competitive class, this has a much better record. There are 366 in the competitive class. In the exempt class, there are 46, most of whom, all of whom, are political appointments. There is a total payroll in this whole service of register of over a million dollars, and by the elimination again of duplicate officers and unnecessary officers, proven by various investigations, we can save, we can save $83,000 in the offices of register by consolidation, and this does not include the civil service employees who are protected by all of these bills as to their tenure of office, their salaries, and their pension rights. No, it would not. No, it would not. No, I would not. I would not. Mr. King, King King, and I would be a little grateful if you could wait until the end. That's what I asked. I'll hurry a little more if I'm not interrupted, and I thank you for your courtesy. Thank you, dear. Now we come to the third group of bills, the Office of Public Administrator, and we have those in five counties of the City of New York. We have the salaries for the public administrator range from $2,000 a year to $10,000 a year with fees in the borough of the Bronx. We have a total number of employees of 30 in these departments, 16 in the competitive class, 14 in the exempt class, with a total personal payroll of $90,000 a year. Now I'm not making any estimate, whatever, as to the savings there. Now I want to make it very plain that any estimate of savings made by me or by anyone with whom I've had work or conference or help has been merely in the top exempt positions of all of these offices. It would mean a very long study, more than anybody in the Council could make, to know just what the other savings would be in the lower employee group. And the bills which I have introduced, Mr. Chairman and members of the Council, take care of that very serious consideration by requiring that the sheriff, the citywide sheriff appointed by the mayor, the citywide register, and the controller, report back to this Council at the end of six months a complete report on the setup of these new citywide offices with advice as to the necessary local laws which may be necessary to make these offices more efficient and more effective. Adding up the savings which I estimate may be made in these offices, the total payroll of which is over $2,400,000 a year. Taking only the top people who would be affected by these bills immediately, I estimate $400,000 could be saved a year. Now, the gentleman the other day in one of the debates on these bills, two weeks ago when we were talking about them, said that the voters of this city were not interested in such small amounts as $400,000 that they only cared about the savings of millions. Important, Mr. Chairman, as the saving of $400,000 a year, and this is a minimum, I'm sure, the estimates by other people who are officials of this city, the Commissioner of Accounts for instance, run as high as a million dollars a year. I do not know because I am not a Commissioner of Accounts just how he would propose to do that, but I have seen the evidence. But with $400,000 a year saving, we have further perfected by these bills, I think, if they are adopted, a much more efficient setup of the whole handling and administration of these offices by bringing them under the central control of the Board of Estimates, under the budgetary control, the salaries will be under the scrutiny of the voters, and if they don't like what happens after these officers are in the mayor's hands, they can turn the mayor out. Under the present rule, they have very little recourse to do anything whatever about salaries in all of these offices. a check comes in to the city government and it's very often a blank check and the city has to pay it. as we have seen with the increase recently in the surrogates court in Kings County from $10,000 a year to $15,000 a year and the city, according to a court ruling, had to pay that increase. Now, this $400,000 a year perhaps isn't a big saving when we talk in millions, but I'd like to translate this into some of the needs that I have just very, very casually picked from many reports that I have read. What are some of the things we need right away? Not relief, but some of the things we've heard talked about in this council for which we need money. We need traffic signals and there are now about 2,500 intersections partially equipped with traffic signals. I estimate that this $400,000 would take care of almost all the necessary traffic intersection lights that are needed in this city because we will get help from the WPA in performing some of this contract. We need more community centers in practically all the schools of this city. We could put community centers in 160 schools of this city with this $400,000 a year. They could be open for community centers 26 weeks a year, four nights a week at $25 a night. That, it seems to me, is worth saving $400,000 for. We have just heard within the day the great need there is for more police. With this $400,000 saving a year, 200 extra police could be hired. And so it goes, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to bother you with more. I have a long list. At 3% interest, for instance, $400,000 would put into construction a little over $13 million in housing. Now, Mr. Chairman, I still apologize for the lateness of the hour, but it's not of my doing. I'd like to read from the Hofstadter report on every one of these county offices. I have it here on my desk, but I'm sure that there isn't a councilman in this room who is not familiar with that report or who is not familiar with the later report of the commissioner of accounts. I think the council tonight has before it one of the greatest opportunities in the history of this city for us as a local legislative body to display our awareness of the fact that we have this opportunity to exercise for New York City an extended home rule which was given to us in 1935. Further than that, I think we have a great opportunity to exhibit high courage and statesmanship to tackle this old problem that has been challenging every board of aldermen and every group of officials in this city since consolidation. It has been the county reorganization has been a matter of attack, a matter of promises and pledges for 40 years in this city, 20 years to my knowledge. And I ask the council tonight seriously to consider the abolition and the consolidation of these offices with existing city agencies. I move, Mr. Chairman, the adoption of these bills. If you recall, Mr. President... Oh, yes. Mrs. Earl, Mr. Keegan would like to ask some questions about county reorganization. He hasn't had much time to look into this matter. Mr. Keegan? Now, I'm sorry I was distracted and I didn't hear what I presume was a facetious remark by the chairman. And I'll ask you now to try to expedite the process of this meeting by conforming to parliamentary rule. Now, I take it, unless I'm contradicted, that Mrs. Earl, as one of the authors of the charter, is vitally interested in this document as the basic law of the city. Quaint it in Section 40. And to determine, after looking at Section 40, whether or not with respect to the proposed abolition of elected officers recommended in the bills Mrs. Earl has cited, that she isn't just going through motions now, if she intends to comply with Section 40 of the charter, because that section very definitely says that any local law shall be submitted for the approval of the electors at the next general election held not less than 60 days after the adoption thereof, and shall become operative as prescribed herein, only when approved at such election by the affirmative vote of a majority of the qualified voters of the city, voting upon the proposition if, if, and then I shall skip one, two, and three, because they do not apply here, but subdivision four of Section 40 says, continuing the leave-off quote, if it abolishes an elective office or changes the method of removing an elective officer or changes the term of or reduces the salary of an elective officer during his term of office, and Section Subdivision five of 40 continues, abolishes, transfers, or curtails any of the powers of an elective officer. Mr. Keegan, I am familiar with that section. I wonder, Mr. Keegan, if I may ask you, in answering your question, whether you think that applies to county officers or only city officers, city agencies? In answer to Mrs. Ailes' question, I think it very specifically and definitely applies to any elective officer. serving in any of the counties of New York City because the charter administers the affairs of the city in the five counties with respect to all of its business in those five counties and all of the appropriations made for the maintenance and conduct of any of the officers within those five counties. Mr. Keegan, may I give you now my answer because I knew this question was going to be asked. It is legal, rather legal and involved. I've taken the liberty of making some notes here. Although section 40 of the charter provides that a local law shall be submitted for approval of the electors at the next general election and so forth, it does not follow that a local law to abolish the offices of county register and county sheriff are required to be approved by the electors. There is no evidence of any intention that the charter revision commission intended section 40 to apply to county officers. On the contrary, there is considerable evidence to the effect that such was not the intent. section 40 of the charter is derived from section 15 of the city home rule law and a comparison of the two laws shows an almost complete exactness of language. With respect to elective offices, the two sections are completely alike. Subdivision 4 of section 40 of the charter is precisely the same as subdivision 4 of section 15 of the city home rule law. There is no evidence of any intention that section 40 of the charter be more or less extensive in scope than its source with section 15 of the city home rule law. The charter revision commission simply specified in the charter itself what had formerly been and is still specified in the city home rule law. It was entirely a matter of mechanics. The city home rule law had and still has no application to the county officers that is quite clearly set forth in section 21 of the city home rule law which provides that quote notwithstanding any provision of this charter the local legislative body of the city shall not be deemed authorized by this charter to adopt a local law which supersedes the state statute now in force or hereafter enacted by the legislature if such local law 9 number 9 of this section applies to or affects any provision of law relating to the property affairs or government of a county or county. Since the scope of section 40 of the charter is limited and defined by the city home rule law and since the latter is inapplicable to county offices section 40 of the charter is likewise inapplicable and does not require a local law to abolish a county office to be submitted to the electors at the next general election. There is further reason for believing that these bills to abolish the county offices need not be submitted to the electors although they abolish elective offices. The city was authorized to abolish the county offices by article 10 section 2 of the constitution in November 1935. the provision reads as follows quote in counties of the city of New York the city of New York is hereby vested with power from time to time by local law to abolish the office of any county officer other than judges clerks of counties and district attorneys end of quote. The above provision requires that the abolition be done quote by local law end of quote. when that phrase was written into the constitution its authors had in mind the city home rule law of that date 1935. They were considering the mechanics whereby the task was to be done. The city home rule law provided adequate and proper mechanics namely a local law. Under the provision of the city home rule law a local law to be valid required a majority vote of the total voting power of each branch of the legislative body and the signature of the mayor. It required the filing and publication of local laws in the office of the secretary of state. When the constitution provided for the abolition of county officers by local law it simply intended that such steps be taken as were then required to pass the local law. The charter revision permission had no power to effect or amend the constitution. We must therefore assume that the same steps are required now as were required before the charter took effect. There is still a third reason why section 40 of the charter does not apply to elective county offices. The charter itself provided a specific means whereby it could make its provisions applicable to a county office. Section 981 subdivision 2 of the charter defines the term agency agency as city, county, borough, or other office position, department, division, bureau, and so forth. The expenses of which are paid in whole or in part from the city treasury. Whenever it was intended that a specific provision apply to a county office the charter specifically so stated or used the term agency. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman, I intend to be very brief at this late hour. About February 1st of last year these bills were sent to the Committee on General Welfare. From that time on Mrs. Earl by Mayor LaGuardia. Gentlemen, this is the whole picture of the stuff. The mayor is very definitely attempting to increase his tremendously broad existing powers and in so doing feels that he can bring about the complete destruction of the Democratic Party. I will be a party to no such schemes and for that reason I shall vote against the measures under consideration this morning. Mr. President. Mr. President is recognized. You want the president to yield Mr. Warren? I don't want to talk about county government reform either. I have here a copy of Guilt of Bliss Civil Practice in New York annotated book 13 which has the Surrogate Court Act but I won't read that Mr. President Mr. President and fellow members of the Board of Aldermen I'm not talking to you. Mr. President this is a beautiful chamber. I like it much better sitting down here where the votes are than sitting up there with half a gavel in my hand. and I may say Mr. President that you don't look any happier up there than I do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now I'd like to take up one particular question which has nothing to do with county reform but has chiefly to do with Brother Circus. Abner when you really care about something and you really have hope for something and you see your hopes dashed you know you feel very deeply about it. And if you have a certain amount of red blood in your veins once in a while it's pretty hard to restrain yourself. I have the highest regard for you not as a member of the council but as Abner Circus the philosopher. You know on January 3rd 1938 before the storm hit City Hall I made a rather naive idealistic speech. I pictured the council as I hoped it would be under the first home rule charter that the city of New York ever had. I ventured to predict that even such an annoying and perplexing problem as county government reorganization might receive its attention. I didn't ask for the program to be passed I only asked for full consideration. I only hoped or ventured to hope that perhaps unlike the old Board of Aldermen which was composed of 65 of the most delightful gentlemen we had no ladies Mrs. Earl a lady would have fared better in the old Board of Aldermen than she does here. I only hoped that there would be public hearings full discussion an opportunity for each bill to be discussed separately and each member of the council in order be counted either in favor of a program or against it not in one night or in the early morning hours with the daylight streaming through the windows as it will be before the last speaker is finished. That's a prediction I can deliver on. Some of the brothers are just commencing to wake up. I had an entirely different talk here. I've been taking notes on what Mr. Burke said and Mr. Sharkey said and then finally I got worn out. I had hoped that this first council would have a real definite program of accomplishment so that you gentlemen sitting here on this side of the house as well as on the other side could go out and appeal to the voters next year with a record of accomplishment that I would be proud to go out and show to the voters a record of accomplishment for you gentlemen. Mrs. Earle, you ask for county reorganization you're getting it tonight in real form. There have been a good many misleading statements. We got into the budget of 1935, 1936, 1937 and so on. I'll only say tonight and I'll show you the figures tomorrow and Mr. Sharkey it was said he would go to work on county reform as soon as the mayor went to work on the city budget. I'll show you tomorrow if you come to my office that the mayor has made good his promise to affect $50 million worth of economies because if he hadn't done it New York City would have been overboard again with mandatory increases and salaries over which it has no control. Mr. Chairman, may I ask the gentleman for a request and just tell us Will the gentleman yield? No. I ask that question, I suppose. The gentleman will not yield. Thank you. We have also met the relief problem in a courageous fashion and I'm glad to see as I said before this evening that the council went along on maintaining that program. the one great successful accomplishment we could have shown was county reform. Mr. Burke cited the Home Rule Law. The Home Rule Law was adopted in 1923. The Home Rule Amendment was adopted in 1923. The Home Rule Law in 1924. It wasn't until 1935 that the Constitutional Amendment which provides and expands the theory of Home Rule to include county government was adopted by the people and that of course supersedes the Home Rule Law and supersedes the charter language which you are tying up with the Home Rule Law. The gentleman would not yield at all. It's too late. There are various other misstatements. The amendment for instance involving the commissioner of jurors the constitutional amendment took care of that office. It was self-operative. The other officers were left for local action of the local legislative body and that is what we were here to do tonight. And the gentleman of the council agreed that all these bills should be taken up together. How can you discuss all the bills together? All the officers filled? The gentleman will not yield. The president will not yield. And he will not talk very much longer, Mr. Kinsley. There won't be any questions. I object to any interruptions. The gentleman said he won't be here. He's not there. Thank you, Mr. Keegan. I'll ask the members of the council to kindly refrain from asking any more questions. I apologize to the chairman of the council. I'll leave you with only two more thoughts. One is the reason these bills have to be adopted tonight was because they must become law before the first of the year due to the activities of a delegate to the constitutional convention known as Mr. Kinsley. That these officers return unless we acted before January 1st. And the one last message I leave you with, the one last hope of democratic action under our home rule machinery, gentlemen, if your duty has been neglected, there is one last resource for the people, and that is to take matters into their own hands and initiate county reform into polls over which you will have nothing to say. The people will take the government out of your hands. Chairman, gentlemen, I am going to be very charged because there are many of the speakers right here. I had hoped that this dawn would be a new dawn for county government in New York. I had hoped that we could finish here this morning without being bitter towards each other. I still have hopes we can because we are too close to each other now to take any further pot shots. But I do not think that the whole question of county reform can be settled on the question of abuse and mud slinging. I do not think it can be settled on the question of attacking Mayor LaGuardia are making an attack in the most progressive president that this country ever had, President Roosevelt. And I am surprised that the Democrats especially do not come to the fore on his behalf. I disagree once more with the manner in which Councilman Abner Surkless from Brooklyn handle the question of county reform. Of course, we do not see eye to eye. Mr. Surkless always tells me that I am not long enough in the country to learn much about the country. And he never forgets to wave the American flag. flag. Well, now, I am not going to do any waving of the American flag, although I claim to be as good an American as Abner Surkless, because I am an American citizen by choice. You can laugh at my brogue and my pronunciation until you split your lips back to your two ears, but you are not going to shake me from my position. I entered this country legally and I applied for citizenship and I was granted citizenship and I am proud of my citizenship, so I had something to say about becoming an American citizen. But I heard the attack made by Abner Surkless and Governor Murphy and that was nothing new to me. I have had many efforts before where he raises the red and the black and the white issue and the radical issue that don't shake me anything. Because I am yet a better pointer for democracy than Abner Surkless because I have yet to use my son to count my ballots after election. But I was in the city of Flint. No, I was in the city of Lansing, Michigan, last August and I listened to a very curious combination. A speaker, yes, a speaker from the Ku Klux Klan, a speaker from the Black Legion and a speaker from a vigilante movement all making the very same speech about Governor Murphy that Abner Surkless made here today. I am not saying that he took his speech from the Ku Klux Klan. May I raise a point of order? I would like to proceed without being interrupted. Yes, I am. I don't believe Mr. Abner Surkless is a very essence of county reorganization and I don't believe that the subject Mr. Quill is discussing now, namely Abner Surkless, Mr. Kinsley. I would like to proceed, Mr. Chairman, without any more shadowboxing. Mr. Kinsley. May I ask him to stay on the question of county reorganization? I'll do that. I'll do that. I'd like to support your point of view, but after Mr. Conrad's recitation of all the judges of the inferior court, I feel that the same latitude should be awarded to Mr. Quill. And I'll be done in a minute. Thank you very much, Mr. Surkless. We're coming nearer to democracy now. No, no. No, no. Only the milkmen and the taxi drivers are listening at this time of the morning and they're both with me. But Mr. Chairman, to continue, I heard the speech of the vigilante movement and I did not say that Agnes Sutton had his speech from the Ku Klux Klan and I did not say that John Hamilton of the National Republican Committee wrote his speech for him. So get me clear. But you will find good and bad people in every movement. You'll find them amongst the Democrats. You'll find a few amongst the Republicans. You'll find them in the American Labor Party and all other parties. And I know that the Hitler way out is not the American way out. And I know that if Governor Murphy used the People's Police Force and the People's Army to shoot down the automobile workers of the Fisher Body Plant and of the Chrysler and General Motors Plant, I know that it would not go in America. That's why Governor Murphy did not make such a move. President Hoover did not make out so well when he used tear gas on the veterans when they went to Washington for bread on top of the service that they gave to the American government and its people. So we should be very careful as to how we speak. We should try always to move nearer to Washington and further away from Berlin. now on county reorganization, Mr. Kinsey. I do not know much about it. I'm not long in the country. But I read tremendous scandals that we had here in past years. I read about Crocker and I read about Murphy. Not the Murphy that disappointed us tonight, but I read about other Murphy's. And I read about tweeds. And I read about courthouses that were sold two or three times. And I read how the people had to pay through the nose for the culture. I even read the city hall was peddled around for a few times in solving. But here we have the people of the city of New York being kidnapped right under our very eyes in 1938, being kidnapped and held for ransom. We are told that the useless job, some several dozen useless jobs, are costing the taxpayers of this city $400,000 a year. At least. Now that's too much in change. It's too much money. It don't come from me. Governor Lehman said they should be done away with. Governor Smith, you had great experience in government, said they should be done away with. Every labor and progressive and religious and civic and patriotic organization and some political organizations in this city. And every newspaper what's reading in this city says up until this very day that they should be done away with. And yet, a certain political party, maybe two political parties, are so anxious to keep themselves struggling that they dare not do away with it. The people have spoken already. We are told that if we did away with the useless jobs, that we could get some 400 or 250 extra police. We could get them, they'd be very useful in the poorer districts. we are told that so many hundred schools and playgrounds could be opened so many nights a week. We are told that 2,200 extra traffic lights could be put up to protect the people and the children going to school. We even believe that some of the money could be used where it is badly needed, for hospitals. because we find doctors and nurses and attendants working today and we can prove it. Even under an improved system of hospitals, and God knows there was an improvement in the last three or four years in the city, they are working for $15, $18, and $25 a week. We find trained nurses responsible for from 40 to 110 patients. And nights are a day. We are told that the money that would be saved to do away with the job would bring out some $13 million for long clearance and public housing. You are dealing with New Yorkers of the streamlined age and they'll play you soon for you. I ask you, before we adjourn here, to do away with the useless jobs. Do I mean to throw these people in the street? No. They should be pensioned off, some of them. They should be given other jobs here and there that they could hold down. I am told that 12 executives are up until now busily engaged, supervising 22 attendants, running in circles. It reminds me of the story of the girl that was looking back to see if she was looking back to see if he was looking back to see if she was looking back to see. That's all they're doing for their care. There are some more things we could do with them. We can get watchman jobs for some of them. They're experienced watchmen by now after years of service. I believe that this whole racket should be wiped out and that the mandate of the people should be responded to and that they should go no further. Before, as President Morris said, the people will take the law into their own hands with their vote on next election day. I ask you again, despite your regular plans to browbe this issue and finally to block any passage of the bill, I ask you to give it false to consideration. I thank you, everybody, that came here. Mr. Baldwin? I want briefly to outline not only my position but the position of the Republican Party in the county of Manhattan. In the first place, Senator Theron was responsible for the amendment which has made possible, the permissive amendment, if you please, which has made possible our action tonight, if any. A great deal has been said about the fact that it was permissive, but I'd like to remind the council that what it permitted was to do away with useless jobs in reorganizing the county government. The members of my party running in the county of Manhattan for these jobs at the last election, all of them ran on the platform that they would work to do away with the very jobs they were running for. and so far as this county is concerned, we are in favor of these bills. Now let's admit that they're not perfect, but the discussion tonight hasn't been on the perfections or imperfections of these bills. It hasn't been on whether these jobs are useless or necessary. It's been entirely on personalities. I've heard everybody from Hitler to Mussolini to Mr. Surplus to the mayor and everybody else, and I haven't heard one single member of this council who before election pledged himself to vote for county reform get up and explain why these jobs should be kept. Now so far as I'm concerned, Mr. President, I think it's a tragic travesty on legislative bodies that we should have sat here tonight and this morning, at this hour, through what I consider very frankly mismanagement of the council's affairs by those in charge of the management, and that applies to the vice chairman as well as to the president of this council, that we should be asked to sit here and debate this question at this time of night because we were jammed up with meetings on other matters all in one day, and I think it was a great disservice to an important cause to the city that our affairs were handled in that manner. And certainly the debate tonight was not on the important issue. And I wish that some of us could reconsider, could search down in our hearts and figure out whether it isn't right that we get up and vote on this as a matter of principle. The people of the city have spoken on the matter of principle. There's no question about that. That we get up and vote on this as a matter of principle. And vote for these bills if there are some small imperfections we can amend them. Personally, I don't believe there are. I have seen party, my party and your party on the other side play politics on questions like this upstate and come to very grievous trouble. Play right into the hands of people who wanted to use to find political plans and plots and schemes to oust the party. Wanting to cross teams and dot eyes. Yes, we're foreign in principle, but we don't want this bill. And whenever a bill came up, the bill was turned down. And I say, Mr. President, that if we're going to sit here all night, we at least ought to be honest with ourselves. We know these jobs are useless. Whatever we may think about these bills, we don't stand here before the public and cross teams and dot eyes and be honest with them and be honest with ourselves given the public mandate and given the statement of most of us before our election. I claim, Mr. President, that these bills should prevail. And so far as the Republican Party and the County of Manhattan is concerned, I may say I'm speaking for them and their record speaks for themselves. Mr. Chairman. I want to make the following observation. We've been here over three hours discussing this question. We haven't at all discussed the question. We've discussed everywhere but the real vitals of this question. I haven't heard one suggestion from anybody on the other side of the House who criticized the present bill, give an explanation of why to this day, after 11 months, they haven't come forward and present the bill. I want to know why Mr. Burke, who prepared this very excellent explanation that he read here for, I think, record time, didn't, if he had these thoughts in mind before, and he must have had them in mind before, and if he was seriously considering this problem, why he didn't come forward with a bill which would not give this strong dictatorial power to the mayor and give some other sort of a bill which would at least allow us an opportunity of voting on what we regard as tied up in that vote on the constitutional amendment. Namely, do we want to abolish the officers and do something to consolidate them, do something to eliminate the waste and the exorbitant expense on the taxpayers of this city. And I say it's a shame to sit here for more than three hours and listen to a lot of canned and prepared speeches, a lot of rationalization, a lot of conscience easing without, and knowing ahead of time that they are going to vote the way they are, every member on their side with their minds made up and every member on this side with the exception of possible Mr. Surplus and kid the public into believing that they're giving a fair and impartial discussion and determination of this important question. I think we ought to proceed immediately to a vote and view with the fact that both sides have thought about this thing, have thought about it for a long time, and something has to be done. instead of all of the loose talk that we have had, let's see if we can't have some action, and let's stand up and be counted. Mr. Kinsley. Mr. Kinsley, I'm rising on a point of high personal privilege because my name has been mentioned by the previous speaker, and he did ask a question. I would like to have the privilege of answering his question so as to clear the record, and incidentally also to answer Mr. Baldwin. Now the question has been raised as to commitments prior to election, not only on this floor but in the newspapers of this city. Fortunately, very fortunately, I have been able to find in my files the original correspondence in connection with my position on this question of county reorganization before election. Now I received two questionnaires, one from the Citizens Union, one from the New York World Telegram. The reply given to both questionnaires was substantially in the same language. Certainly it was substantially in the same form. As I state, very fortunately, I have here a letter dated October 16, 1937, addressed to the Secretary of the Citizens Union, which carries with it the same reply that was given to the New York World Telegram. And I'm going to take the liberty of reading it to clear the record. Questions A and B, this is the station, has been the question as to whether or not a referendum abolished these elective officers. Section 40 of the new charter seems to indicate that such is the case. Mayor LaGuardia, in a memorandum, which he submitted to Borough President Lyons of the Bronx, on the date of August 2nd, stated that a referendum is not necessary. In a letter to Murray W. Stan, dated October 4th, the Corporation Council also gave us his opinion that a referendum is not required. However, may I ask that you read over very carefully the memorandum prepared by myself and submitted to the Joint Committee on County Consolidation on the date of August 5th, copy and close, in which I outline my own views and my opinion as to the referendum requirement. In summing up, may I state that I am in favor of the principle of reorganization of county government, and I recognize my responsibility to carry out the mandate of the people. I am prepared to do this, but unless I can be convinced that a referendum is not mandatory in connection with legislation to abolish the offices of sheriff and register, then I shall be inclined to insist upon the inclusion of a referendum requirement in any legislation seeking to accomplish this. Now, there's the record, and there is the reply to the question is. And there was my position in 1937 in August, and it's my position today. Mr. President, may I ask Mr. Burke a question? If this is your only objection, the feeling that you have that a referendum is necessary, I can't understand, Mr. Burke, why you're not willing to vote for these bills and let the courts decide whether a referendum is necessary. Let them decide that. You don't have to be the court of appeals here. In 1937, I felt that the law clearly provided for referendum requirements and any legislation designed to abolish county office. In 1938, I feel exactly the same way about it. What opposing it is? Let's pass the law and find out. And give the power to the mayor of the city of New York and take it away from the people? Maybe it'll go to court. Maybe the court will take it away from... And maybe they won't. Well, Mr. President, the fact is, and I just wanted to ask that question. The issue here is very simple. Why haven't we had a discussion of the issue? Because nobody on that side of the house obviously wants to discuss the issue. They're afraid of the issue. That's the real fact. You don't want to discuss the real guts of this question. Any of you. Would you have a stand in your right to say that I pledged myself in advance when the record clearly showed I didn't? I didn't say that. Well, Mr. Palmer did, Mr. Bellis did. I just asked a question. I said, if you wanted to know what the referendum was necessary, the easiest way is to vote from the law that the courts were stopped. I believe both gentlemen are out of order. I believe they are, too. What are you going to do about it? Do you want the floor, Mr. Kinsley? Would you like the floor? I have the floor. Oh. Well, I had it, too. I'd be glad to yield it. Thank you, Mr. Kinsley. After all you gave me a drink, I've got to do that for you. Well, now, I suppose in a fashion of a good radio commentator, I should say, good morning, my friends. When I last spoke to you, it was good night. Now we are resuming a new day. If I keep on much longer in this fashion, I shall say, Merry Christmas. Folks, I wish you a happy yuletide. Now, there's been a lot of talk here tonight about some people on this side of the aisle, always pointing over here to the right. You leftists over there indicate us as saying we are afraid to debate the issue. We've heard an awful lot of wind around this place, and when we attempted to answer questions to shorten the debate, especially when your esteemed president took the floor and made that gallant assertion that $50 million had been saved, such as the mayor had promised in his original campaign, when I asked him where, he said, I shall not yield. When I asked him where the mandate was, he again refused to yield. I haven't found out where that so-called mandate is yet. I have in front of me a copy of the Board of Elections bulletin dated October 8, 1935, including what I suppose is the proposed mandate, the abstract of proposed amendment number one. And if anybody over there thinks that is a mandate, they're entitled to their opinion. Now, why are all the bills being discussed together? Well, every one of them look the same. If you read all of the bills, they're printed very neatly, it seems, in last week's journal. And if you just eliminate public administrator and substitute sheriff, and in the next bill, remove the word sheriff and substitute register and continue right through, they are all the same. Each paragraph in the bill down to the separability clause, so they're all the same. They rise and fall and will be damned on the same issue. Now, there's been a lot of talk around here about a mandate. Well, this so-called mandate authorized the legislature to provide, or directed the legislature to provide by law for the organization and government of counties. And in the same amendment, Section 2 of Article 10 was amended to provide that in counties in the city of New York, said city is vested with power from time to time by local law. Now, it's vested with power from time to time by local law. Nobody can ever say that permission is a mandate. Now, all the way through this whole argument, I'd like a little silence, too. It'd be much easier. It's a pleasure. Please, Mr. President, a little order. We are told that the elective county officers are being frozen into the budget. And that if we do not act tonight, I don't know why it had to be December 20th. Now we're in December 21st. Why it had to be any one of these two days that the law was going to be magically changed. I don't believe the sponsor of this law or these laws herself knows what the Constitution of New York says about the rights of county officers in office to hold office. I didn't hear her answer a question. She took her womanly privilege of not yielding to Mr. Keegan, and I take it for granted she doesn't know that the Constitution now and in 1939 prescribed that elective county officers in office shall hold their office during the term for which they are elected. Maybe she will run outside now and get somebody to answer the question for her. I don't like, but Mrs. Earl must expect that if she's going to sit in here as a councilman, she must expect her to deal with us as a councilman. Now, Mrs. Earl, you've heard a lot during the debate here and as a member of the Charter Commission about savings. I would like you to tell us tonight what savings have been affected in the borough of the Bronx by the amalgamation of the office of the commissioner of jurors with that of the county clerk. Show us a dollar of savings, not one of $350,000 or $350,000. Show us a dollar of savings. And you who come in here tonight and plead for the poor and the poverty-stricken, Mrs. Earl, I wish you'd listen to this. I want to know if you are willing to advocate that the surrogate court, which is the court of the widow in Arkansas, the court which is responsible for the administration of the estates of the deceased, the court which is responsible for the appointment of the public administrator, the court at which no scandal has ever been pointed. And I'll name the men. In the Bronx, we have had the Honorable George M.S. Schulte and Albert H. Henderson. And in Manhattan, we've had Jim Foley and surrogate Salahand. And in Brooklyn, we'd have Wingate and the other men who have served there. I would like you to get up here and assert that you in any manner or form can approve of any bill which would give to a politician running for office on a program and that the court must be divorced in the administrative function if we are to maintain the balance of sex, the system of sex and balance, the theory of government under which we are. That, Mr. President, is a much less American method of doing this than giving it into the power, into the hands of the executive and the administration of the law and the government. There seems to me, Mr. President, one more point upon which the Democrats have relaxed. They now seem to feel that the passage of legislation tonight is useless. And they feel that it's on the basis that even if they were the Democrats, it would not be legislation that could be carried into effect in part of the reciprocation of sex people. I would not like, Mr. President, to go back to that time that seems now almost an eternity ago when Mrs. Earl read a very distinctive opinion upon this place. But if the councilmen did hear it, if they were able at that time of night to absorb its content, it must have been to me, Mr. President, to have aroused the men to come down into their own position. And that is a matter of faith that they might evenly pass tonight as county reorganization and lead it to the court to ultimately prevail. Mr. President, we're presented tonight with a rather unusual situation. The majority has not presented a bill for the reorganization itself. It is left to the minority to bring it forward. And yet that somewhat common predecessor of this present body, even those people, members of the old board of Alderman, did bring forth a place. and that when reinstituted and invigorated with a new spirit, this body became a council and judging to me they might have followed out the tradition or the inheritance that the old board had left them. There may be, Mr. President, arguments against county reform. Mr. Kingsley did say that by putting the commissioner of jurors under the county service, no saving was affected. That Mr. President is the most powerful argument in favor of county reorganization as it is envisaged in Mrs. Earl's jury. We know that what we want to do is to create a template so that we may abolish not merely consolidate in the county character five offices the five boroughs the functions which we seek to template. Mr. Kingsley wanted to know why we would abolish five caribs or why we would not in naming a single caribs designate that a deputy should be in each county. It would seem to me much more logical practice as the president since the sheriff is in a sense an arm of the law only in an administrative sense that the area of that of function should coincide with the area of Supreme Court division. That the first department of the Supreme Court should have one deputy and the second department another so that their functions may be more nearly correlated than they are in the present age. Mr. President I have been talking in the same house steadily going that the democratic opposition to these bills has been based upon an honest if mistaken point of view. I do not see perhaps it's naïc naïc day on my part I do not see how whatever the mayor may do in relation to the 6th Avenue rail or the 6th Avenue subway how that can have any domain has any reality in relation to the present argument statement is the word that the government is given me by Mr. Bell. Mr. President I am a new member in his house and I have approached county reform before the full metamorphosis into a councilmanic exterior has taken place. I represent perhaps more truly than any of the others the people that they say. I have listened with such attention as I have and able to command to the arguments against county reform and my naïc day still leaves me unimpressed. Mr. President just before you leave I urge the council through you to pass these bills. may we remind you that you are listening to the city council meeting which has been for long since 1 o'clock yesterday afternoon in the meeting of the fall first a special meeting on the capital outlet budget and finally on the other matters that came up in the regular meeting of the council which was resumed at about 10.30 and in which we have finally reached the final item which is now being discussed the reorganization of the county officers. Councilman Carroll is now speaking. This is the municipal broadcasting system New York City's own station WNYC. I have attempted to keep my mind open on the question and I did so until I took my seat in the council today. So in searching around for some information I looked at some of the record of some of our distinguished citizens on what they have said upon the question. I thought that probably it might well be that they have all agreed upon some plan and I refer now to the bill which refers to the register to be appointed by the mayor. I find that Commissioner of Accounts Mr. Blanchard and his deputy Irving Van Cooper in a report on page 2 to Mayor LaGuardia said this is an important office and they are doing vital work but they made no recommendation for him to act. Now Mrs. Earl refudged Judge Seaberry's report to the legislative committee. I'd like to make reference to that on page 33 in Judge Seaberry's report he said we propose to create five borough clerks with each borough registration recording and filing of records. The appropriate office should be a borough clerks office. Now that's what Judge Seaberry said in his report to the legislative committee. That's a different opinion than what is contained in these bills. What I was seeking to get was some continuity of an expression of opinion by these distinguished citizens. Now on August the 30th 1936 Commissioner Blanchard I.e. Commissioner of Accounts released his report on this office but offered no suggestions. The City Club favored the Transfront Office and it's this time that the Charter Revision Commission made no provision for any agency to take over the office of Registry. I'd like to know why did they purposely omit any mention or suggestions in the Charter. Now in regards to the public administrator and then our program in Judge Seabury's report to the Hockstead Committee he recommended that the duties of the public administrator be transferred to the city places. Now that's a different report or a different suggestion that is in Mrs. Earl's Bill. And I want to show you that there is no continuity here that these distinguished gentlemen have all taken a different view. They probably agreed that something should be done to change the office but so far as the duty should be assumed. They had all various ideas as to whom should assume the duty. Now Councilman Carroll does not know. I'm not a new member in this court. I'd be very glad that's on Senate. in 1936 I'd like to give you states and I'm quoting what the Citizens Union urged me that the duties of the public administrator be transferred to the city chamber. And the former counsel to the Citizens Union advised that they be transferred to the corporation council. Now in 1936 the Bar Association had something to say upon the question of the public administrator and the Bar Association wrote that they were not advised of any necessity or any reform. The office of public administrator shall not be separated from the surrogate court. And I'll just close with those brief quotes to show that there is no continuity of thought and that these distinguished gentlemen all while they may have agreed that something should be done about these bills, they could not agree between themselves and they all offered various and different suggestions. Carol, will you now yield your question? Carol? No, it's too late. It's too late. All right. Now, Councilman Deering is recognized. I come from a section of the Bronx, up east of the Bronx River, runs up through the Westchester County Line. When I was a boy, the section that I live in was a part of Westchester County. And then later on, it became a part of Bronx County. And then in 1914, the people up in my section voted to have their own central government in the Bronx. Now, I know to have the various offices now centralized here in New York City would be a burden to the various taxpayers up in my section where I come from. Years ago, they came down here to the Hall of Records where the Register's Office was located. And there they had to file all different papers, deeds, and satisfaction, and papers of conveyances and other instruments. I know the sentiment of the people up in the East Bronx are not in favor of centralizing the various county offices here in New York City. We've had it before, and the people in 1914 voted for their own county government. And I just have a report here from the Register's Office, 1926 to 1937. Instruments recorded for 441,882. Instruments filed for 478,078. Satisfaction filed and recorded for $6,394,122. Total, $1,114,082. Receipts, $8,415,945.75. Expenses, $2,046,951.79. Net to the city and state, $6,358,993.93. 96 cents. Share of the state, $3,136,229.27. Net profit to the city, $3,232,764.69. Average yearly profit, $530.750. Now, I know there'll be no saving on the part of centralizing these various offices here in the city and the policy and county government. I am not afraid to go on record voting against these bills because I, as a Democrat, and elected all of them in two terms, and then later on, a member of this council. And I might say that I received the greatest number of first-choice votes of any candidate in the five bars of the last election, over 53,000. Councilman Nugent is recognized. Mr. President, I realize that at this great hour, if anything denied me today, we'll not change the vote one way or the other. I have studied the proposition of consolidation or reform, as you may call, this county government, and I have made up my mind. I made a close study of it, and found out from what I heard tonight, and the inconsistencies that have been approached on the opposite side, all the way from the days that were New Paul Morris as an alderman. It reduced bills in this in reference to Connery Falls. On both occasions, on both bills, he had different references to various agencies where the city administrator, the register, and sheriffs were supposed to go. So it was with Mrs. Doyle. So it was with the various groups who was up in favor, of common reform, inconsistent in all their views. The other side has said tonight, or today, that we have not given them anything or any thought whereby we can show how we're going to vote. But I, for one, Mr. President, feel that we have produced fair and square arguments from our side of the aisle. I feel that we have our hearts in this proposition just as well as them. I believe, and I know, that the sheriff of New York County has carried on his office in an efficient manner. I know as well that our lady register, Martha Boyne, for the year that she's been in there, for the period of the time that she's been there, the register of New York County. Every year, she turns over her certificates to the Treasury or to seek in front of the city of New York. Will the councilman kindly take their seat? I believe they had attention shown to them when they were speaking. Continue, Councilman Newsom. I realize that she, above all others, has made a wonderful record as register of New York County. Every year, if I remember rightly, even in this question, she's asked for less money than she has asked for the year previous. Economy? In what way? In what respect? You'll have to put out a deputy sheriff, a deputy register, or some type of that time throughout the centralized proposition offered by the opposition or the other side. Now, let me call it this time a little article that I just tripped out of a paper some time ago, and it'll only take a few minutes. Now, one of these bills, this is the public administrator. There was a suggestion made that this be turned over the city chamber. The advocates of change have long oidged the abolition of the office of the city chamber. Mayor Mitchell appointing Todd the Chatham Act White People. their LaGuardia chamber, voice intended to go on a dollar a year basis until the office could be closed up and in minor duties transferred to some other officials. Now, now the new city club, the new city club, where the reformed Easter breakfast performs, proposes to give the chamberlain's the power to appoint the public administrators for the five counties, or perhaps just one administrator for the whole military. the new city club. So did you call it? Why? Why? Well, it seems often strange. Now, I'm getting back on the question, and I think Mrs. Erling doesn't. Yeah, I'd like this too. But I don't think the often is. It's a strange that the women's club and the New York County Young Republican Club and all the rest of these people couldn't stay up late, and here this important debate on the very night it must be conducted in order to save $350,000. At a minimum. Now, Mrs. Erling, I didn't interrupt you when you refused to yield, and you must expect to conduct yourself now. You can answer my questions when I get through. I don't believe you're familiar in any respect whatever with county government history. I don't believe that you know any more about what is in the charter nor in this convention record than the man walking out there on the street corner. You don't know that many Republicans cite... Mr. Selman? I don't think that it's in order for a councilman to use a discussion of an issue to speak to expose anything with respect to another councilman. And I'd say it whether Mrs. Erling were a woman or not. I submit that Mr. Kinsey is out of order. I beg that the council's pardon, I was out of order. Mr. Chairman, I must say that I didn't, as you put it properly, I do not believe that the councilwoman knew as much about the record as she pretends in some of the speeches which she has read to us tonight. I must say that we in the Bronx do know what reformed government costs. We know that every time that they enter office they leave it with a headache and a bankroll which is bankrupt. The very papers which today are yelling for the elimination of parasites on the public payroll are the very ones which supported County Realtor who have supported the initiation of a separate county government for the Bronx as far back as 1900. We find the world of that time, the predecessor of the World telegrams. We find the Americans of that time, the predecessor of the heard papers of today. We find the old press amalgamated now, I believe, with the sun. Every one of them trying to set up a separate civic organization in the Bronx. and I'm merely going to read to you a short abstract from an editorial in the American, I don't know the date of 1911, entitled Home Rule and Independence for the Bronx. Government is always an expense, but the experience of the world is that government is always worth what it costs. a separate county and separate offices would save for the Bronx in money alone many times as much as it would cost to maintain that government. A citizen who lives in the most northern corner of the Bronx must travel from 8 to 12 miles to the city hall on the lower edge of Manhattan to transact any legal business in his hands. The fees of reporting deeds, the conveniences of the sheriff, the advantages of a register and of a county clerk and of a district attorney near at hand and the savings in time and expense of the trip to and from would in the aggregate to 500,000 people, now 1,500,000 people, save time as much as it would cost those people to maintain a separate government. That was written for 500,000 people. We now have almost crippled that amount in the Bronx. Why you gentlemen are trying to bring down here into city hall the power to appoint sheriff for some strange reason by the mayor who would supervise as Mr. Surplus said one of the chief police officers of the city and would appoint him not for the period in which the mayor is in office but for a period of six years. You would give for six years an overlapping period. Why should that be? The people never voted on any question like that. You're hypocrites. You're fakers when you say there's a mandate. It was never put to the people. If you think you're so honest to God's show about it, go to the people. Take advantage of Section 40 of our Councilman Keegan indicated. Why this fucking baloney you've been talking about, I'm glad to get down to the issue with you. Any part of it will take the convention record. We'll take your Cerebine Court Act for which you report. We'll take our own debate. We'll show you Mrs. Earl's bill. And we'll show you by the record and by your own mistakes that instead of saving the $50 million, you scram this thing up now and you're talking of $350,000. You had it up to $10 million, Mr. Morris, when you were in here. And Councilman Burke, then Alderman Burke, made you backwater through your instigated press, the World Telegram, and he brought you down beneath $300,000. And your little stooge in the World Telegram said, maybe we were slightly over-optimistic. and if you don't believe it, the copy of that editorial is in this record. And you'll get up and I can remember you saying, well, probably I was slightly wrong. And there are about eight men on this floor tonight that remember that speech. And that's why we should have a stenographer in this chamber, Mr. Chairman, because it's those fine, typical side remarks of yours that should be engrossed and available to all future students of history. Now, you've gone through with a lot of baloney during the past few years about how much is saving county government. I didn't do so bad. You have an attempt to explain to the people of our borough why none of these bills provide for a separate office in each county. You can take any one of these bills and you say it sets up a sheriff. And a deputy sheriff, but I defy you to show me any line on those bills that said there shall be a deputy sheriff in Brooklyn, Rock, Queens, or Richmond. If you want the sheriff to serve a paper, you'll probably have to get down and beg the favor of the mayor to appoint it. And if you think that's economical administration of the government, you can't kid all of the people all of the time. You've been getting away with it for a long time. Though the hour is 6.20, though this may not reach many years, I'm sorry there is no scenario for president because I would like to have you be able to take me up at my word and say Kinsley said this because I want to say right now Kinsley means it. I'm sorry that at this hour at 6.22 a.m., I must get this figure in my system. But there's an old saying, God help anybody to keep Kinsley awake after 3 a.m. I'm willing to confess to that error of my work. But you've been talking tonight in some ways about how much this would mean the mayor has spoken about if I had the $350,000 he goes up and down, I could have 175 extra shots and then you could have a $350,000 and then I could have stamped that out. He doesn't tell us that he's a stooge down in the office at $16,000 a year writing essays about cockroaches. Ooh! Rats, four-headed men, playgrounds for puppy dogs, cats. No, he doesn't say that. All at a cost of $16,000 a year for which any honest mayor could get the answer of the Board of Education and School Architects and a claim of economy eliminating a salary of $25,000 a year, he put in two men in there at $30,000 a year, $15,000 a piece and another man to supervise the drafting of plans at $7,200 a year. Mr. Morris, listen to this. Mr. Morris, just another question of so-called economy. $25,000 was eliminated and all of a sudden $37,200 grew in his place. for that $12,200 you could put six and one six policemen on the street as the mayor said. And Mr. Morris, Mr. Chairman, may I call your attention to the fact that there's been when I, there's been a great view and I'll pry around this council chamber from some men who were committed to vote for this bill and the fact that 6th Avenue's elevator's been eliminated and I think casually the mayor voted $5 million to underpin that elevator while the subway was being built and the subway and the elevator thrown away. There you go. And now we're being pilloried with a question of $350,000 and only today Mr. Morris, you made quite a number of speeches and you said you wanted to have them answered. I'd love to answer. You made a speech on the floor. I was trying to answer some of them. You were talking here on the floor yourself. That's why I'm calling you particularly. to attention. You were talking about... Mr. President, may we have some water here? Yes, I'd like that. It does seem to me, Mr. Morris, that after you've spoken from the floor, you might listen to the answer, but of course, we don't expect that from you. wouldn't register anyone. There's been a great talk about the elimination of $400,000 and how much it means to the police department. You didn't say anything about the $5 million you tossed into the hole on Sixth Avenue and then threw 700 men out of work. that $500 million put to proper work would have employed 2,500 police. You casually tossed money around in this town, you threw a couple of million dollars away on Bob Moses' Flushing Bay basin for boats for the World's Fair and then you spent $38 million of which the city's got to spend at least 18 and Bob Moses has got to spend another half million to get into the basin while you close it up with an airport. You haven't got up a very satisfactory explanation yet, though I was licked on the boat today, of why you should build an Elk Club building in Brooklyn for a million and a half while you've got 10 schools waiting in Brooklyn to be built each of them for less than that figure. When you get all through, you're a master to camouflage. I don't know how you control the press. I'm probably putting myself in wrong with the long-suffering member of the press still present, but I did pick up one of the late city editions of a morning paper of today's date. which said that we were engaged in a filibuster. And gentlemen, after I've listened to Mr. Fellis and Mr. Quill, I must say that we have not. I've attempted to answer a few questions to show a few reasons why I'm going to vote against all of these bills, and I haven't yet mentioned the Bronx County building. Just in closing, gentlemen, may I say that since this divine charter, the God-given charter, was given to us, we have had the Bronx County building under a centralized building department. And do you know, gentlemen, that this is the absolute fact that one side of the window, even in the executive offices, is washed on one day and the inside some other day so that you are always assured of having the proper effect of lace curtains on the window. And believe this or not, they never wash the ventilator. That is, the small glass screens at the foot of the window because the gentlemen claim they are not in the contract. And they never wipe the water that is spilled on the sill because they claim that is not in the contract. I ask you who remember the Bronx County building as a beautiful thing it was from the time it was erected until January 1st, 1938, to go up there sometime and to notice what I have seen the fact as a fact these windows cleaned one day on the outside several days later on the inside and no replacements on broken windows even in the front doors and the main revolving doors until a requisition is sent down to Manhattan for a replacement. If you think that's the economy and if you think we want more of it then you can count on me to vote for these bills. Mr. Barker? Mr. President, there are more things here than what I ever dreamed of in my philosophy I must say. and I have been trying for some time to make head or tail out of the arguments as they concern county reorganizations and I have come out of the confusion with these little simple facts. One is that the passage of these bills entails a fear in some of the members that it might result in some form of dictatorship and I would like first to take up that particular angle. Mr. President, the government of the United States was established on the series of checks and balances and the difference of powers and the separation of powers between the judiciary, the executive and the legislative branch. and only, only in so far as the executive assumes the power of making policy are we in danger of dictatorships. Now these offices that are thought to be abolished by these bills are purely administrative in function and they do not in any sense create further policymaking power on the part of the mayor. It seems to me that there is very little merit in the argument that giving the mayor the power of appointment of the sheriff, vesting in the controller of the city, the office or the function and duties of the public administrator do not in any way, Mr. President, add to the policymaking power of the mayor or enlarge his ability to intrude upon the functions of the legislative body. Mr. President, there is a further argument that I have heard tonight and that is permissive legislation does not necessarily mean that you should do anything about it. And yet I would like the democratic members of this council to reflect upon the amendments to the legislature of which we all voted in this last election. And I think with one exception those are all permissive amendments. Do they feel that the legislature in Albany need not pass a housing bill or an enabling act for that particular piece of permissive legislation? I think, Mr. President, that the passage of those amendments were in essence a mandate to the legislature at Albany to create enabling legislation to carry out the wishes of the people. And this piece of permissive legislation falls into the same category. There is a further argument which seems to me somewhat confused. And that is that the mayor, having shown no regard for autonomy, there seems to be a right of the Democrats in this House to arrogate to themselves the right of a little luxury in the way of not autonomy. Mr. President, I should speak as briefly as possible and I deliberately delayed talking until this time because I feared that if I made the speech I'm about to make earlier in the evening I might have been accused of trying to block action. I am compelled, Mr. President, to advise all of the members of the council and I shall demonstrate it to them legally and very quickly because I make no apology about the fact that I'm a lawyer and I say that a lawyer who can't demonstrate the law quickly to a layman isn't very much of a lawyer. I shall demonstrate to you, Mr. President, that we have absolutely no power to act at all, that the Earl Bills, even if they are passed, will be ineffective, that the Earl Bills themselves are so drawn that they create a series of people with titles who have no powers and who very much like Poovah in the Mikado are the Lord High executioner and everything else, but when they're finished can't do a blessed thing. And I say this, that at least with respect to what I shall say, there will never be any accusation or any fair accusation that fair and I say fine in my own behalf, effort has been made to try at least reasonably to get some series of amendments that would make these bills readable and usable. and as an example which you're perfectly welcome to look at, let me show you a series of amendments just to 176 which I drew in the vain hope that 176, the first and the simplest bill that we're discussing, could be made a readable and usable bill. Now I said that I try to demonstrate this legally and I respectfully make this challenge. I say to the members on the other side of the house as well as my own conference on this side, I say to the members of the press that after I have made this legal demonstration I request them as a matter of fairness to me to consult their own attorneys and to see whether their lawyers do not agree with everything that I shall now say. And I'll say it briefly and it's very easy to demonstrate. Now first of all, I'd like them quiet on this because my voice isn't in very good condition after the beating I took this afternoon. The right of the council to act depends first on the constitutional grant of power through which the legislature draws a statute giving us permission to do anything. The city charter is merely a statute. It happens to be a statute applying by its terms in New York City alone. But it is no different from any other statute. Now, the original right of the city to act at all and mind you I emphasize the words at all. It isn't just to act with respect to this it's to act in any manner will be found in article 12 section 3 of the New York state constitution. That article was adopted in 1923 and became effective January 1st, 1924. And that section concluded with the word the legislature legislature shall in its next session after this section should become part of the constitution provide by general law for carrying into effect the provisions of this section. Now, the legislature did exactly what the voters of the state said it could do by reason of that constitutional amendment. And Mrs. Arrow saved me a great deal of time and saved you a great deal of time in the discussion which we're about to have by frankly and honestly and most graciously as she can stating that the New York City Home Rule Law or I should say the City Home Rule Law of the state of New York was applicable in the present situation. Now, the legislature passed the City Home Rule Law which is the document by which any city can act pursuant to the constitution. And the City Home Rule law provides that a local legislature and where it a local legislature could act with respect to the affairs of the city in a certain limited fashion. Now, I'm not going to mince words about whether these bills are the affairs of the city or are not the affairs of the city because if they're not the affairs of the city we might involve the home with nothing to vote on. Mrs. Earl is indicating she's a county of the city. Well, let's take that. But nevertheless, they are affairs perfecting the city and so I presume come directly under the law that Mrs. Earl read. Now, in section 12, subdivision 2 of that law, and I'm citing this chapter and verse so that nobody need have any doubt about what I'm talking about. And here it is right here and I'll be finished on the law. Section 12, subdivision 2 of that law says this. It says that a local legislative body, subdivision 1 says, shall have the right to supersede certain state legislation. But then subdivision 2 says this. No local law shall supersede any provision of an act of the legislature and then it has two parts, one relating to the property and affairs of one city which has nothing to do with this. Secondly, another part, but the third part which is important is this. Nor any provision of an act of the legislature enacted pursuant to Article 12 of the Constitution on an emergency message from the governor and by the concurrent action of two-thirds of the members of the legislature. Now, what have we got? We have this clear proposition that we may not override any general legislation. If I get you involved, stop me and ask me a question then and there. That we may not override any act of the legislature which has been passed on an emergency message from the governor and a concurrence of two-thirds of both houses of the legislature. Now, the Constitution underwent another amendment in 1935. That is a famous mandatory, permissive mandate and so forth of these people. And that amendment which coexists in the Constitution with the other amendment which I just discussed provides this. it says that a city shall have power with respect to county officers. The purpose of that was to enlarge on the power with respect purely to city officers. That's clear. But, that is, the legislature may not act on these matters after the city has acted. By clear implications, the situation arose where the legislature could act on such a matter before the city acted. So that if the legislature had not acted up to this minute we could go right ahead. Now, strangely enough, Mr. President, that provision also has in it that the way on which the legislature acts is by a message of emergency or necessity from the governor coupled with a two-thirds concurrent of both houses of the legislature. Now, what have we got? Our power to act, then, is dependent upon the nonexistence of an act of the legislature covering the same subject which was passed on an emergency message from the governor and a two-thirds concurrent to both houses of the legislature. Am I pretty clear up to now? Now, let's see where we stand. I want to make one position perfectly clear. When I ran for office in 1937, I pledged myself to the principle of the consolidation of county offices. By that pledge, I still stand. I am prepared if a student wish to vote for such measures. In a place, somebody sneaked up to the legislature and the person who sneaked up to the legislature and nobody brought this out today and everybody ducked it very carefully, sneaked up to the legislature and got the governor to send in a message of necessity and the legislature by the concurrence of two-thirds of both the houses passed a state law which is beyond our power to amend, which effectively sows into the state law every one of the offices that we're now trying to abolish. That is the fact. And the best proof of it, Mr. President, is this, that if you will be good enough, gentlemen of the council, to look at the back of every one of Mrs. Earle's bills in the table of appeals, you will see that a reference is made in every bill to chapter 552 of the laws of 1938. with the exception of bill number 136 where the references are made to sections of the Surrogate Court Act, but in that bill, those sections of the Surrogate Court Act were passed by 552 of the laws of 1938. So that somebody, yes, I listen to you, Mr. Bellis, I yield. Come on, Jim. All right, I'll let you finish. You'll like it to answer questions. I have no desire to finish if you'd like to interrupt. No, no, I simply, I simply want to move. Is this a question or a question? Yeah, I want to answer to the question. Councilman, fellas, kindly ask all questions, sue the chair, and we'll avoid any future arguments. Continue, Councilman. Now, how was 552 passed? I've got it right here. Not anybody's reprint of it. Not anybody's idea of how maybe somebody passed it. But here is the official session laws of the laws of 1938. And here is chapter 552, boys and girls. The one that Mrs. Earl is going to kick out of the window by her various repealing sentences. I'm going to be completely about it, but you just can't do it. And it says in the introductory portion of that, which indicates, according to legislative practice, the official manner in which it was passed, became a law April 7, 1938, with the approval of the governor, passed by a two-third vote on emergency message and message of necessity. Now, who went to the governor and got him to sow into this law and need it, Mr. Lazarus? Who went to the governor and got him to sow into this state law a thing which makes it impossible for the city council to act? Mr. Lazarus? I'm going to put my questions. Mr. Ballas, may I please last year? If you will. Will the councilman yield? I'll be delighted. Councilman Yale, would you be good enough to read section 22 of that particular law you just quoted and let us know whether that makes any difference? Section 22 of the law to which you refer is a section which says I mean, I know this law back to you, but don't try to, don't mean it. It's a section that says that nothing which is passed in this law I'll summarize and you can tell me if I know that nothing which is passed in this law should have the effect of creating or destroying a power to override or simply to see ban or resist isn't that roughly what you said? No, I'd prefer if you'd read it and let's, uh, Suppose you read it to me, I have not, I don't want to look at it, go ahead. Section 22 effects of the local law. This act shall not operate to deprive the local legislative body of the city of New York of the power to enact local laws in relation to any matter in respect to which such power would otherwise exist nor shall it limit such power. Referring specifically to the prohibition which you say exists because of the enactment of that particular legislation. Now, I will answer that now. I intend to take it up a little bit later in my debate. The mayor gave me a construction of that, of that proposition today. He gave it to every member of the council if you were listening carefully. The administrative code of the city of New York contains that identical provision in the enacting clause. And the mayor today returned the bill to the city council which he had vetoed and here's what he said about the power of the council to act. I quote from his veto message. Quote, the mayor's saying, it reverses and changes the express provision of the administrative code to a degree and extent beyond the power of amendment that's provided in the law and creates such a change beyond the powers vested in the legislative body of the city. There is your meta's own construction of that very section. Well, now, will Mr. Feldman yield to a further question? Delighted. The chair. Yes? Was the mayor referring to the particular provision that you talk about in the home rule law or was he referring to section 40 that I read very clearly on the floor in the charter and said that it was limited by the charter? He was referring to the very provision I'm discussing. Why, I read section 40? Excuse me, please. You ask me a question and if you're just in there, I'll be delighted to answer it. Well, would you answer it the line of section 42 if you don't mind? The mayor's veto message contains four parts. It's interesting to note, by the way, that the stamp on the outside of the message says December 1st and message is dated December 12th. I know that message, too. It contains four parts. The first part tells us he returns the bill to us. The second part tells us that the bill is a violation of section 40 I think it's subdivisions B and C of the city's house. We say it's a given of obstruction to the state. 42 it is. 42. I take your caution. The third part of his veto message is the part which I just read to you so that the mayor was giving us a practical construction of the precise thing of which I'm now speaking. I hope that answers the question. You may not be satisfied with it, but it is the answer. Now, who went up to Auburn? Who got the governor of the state of New York to sow into the state law beyond our power to repel the sections which forever carried these offices into further bail? Who is it that went up to and instead of leading in these into the surrogate court act, the provision which was read by Mr. D. Javon at section 124 providing for an appointment for a period of time for the public administrator, put this section into the surrogate court act? The public administrators in the counties of the city of New York in office when this act takes effect shall continue in office until the end of their respective terms or until a vacancy occurs, thus giving a life tenure of office to three of the public administrators. Who did it? Do we have a right to know it? We have a right to know who was the enemy of who we were to do it. And I made the inquiry. I made the inquiry of the one person who was bound by his own office to tell me what the facts were because he said in the emergency message that I wanted to know who got him to do it. And the person I made the inquiry of was the governor of the state of New York. And I had his answer. I'm the address stationery of the governor. I'm a quarterly or original jacket. Dated December 19, 1938. My dear Mrs. Collins, to queue into your request, I have examined the bill for here and the 70th trajectory 588 Prince 5 Radio. Now let me start right here. Don't anybody say stone's living in another fellow? Because when you get to the end of this letter, you'll see that it's 0 and 522. Those are 522. Those simply contain the quick numbers in the introduction. But when it became of all, it's 522. Now, on February 3rd, 1938, I received a written request from the mayor of the city of New York to issue an emergency message as provided in the Constitution to Article 12, Section 2, so as to permit the legal passage of the aforementioned bill. Now, don't tell me, please, that Article 12, Section 2 doesn't apply anything because the mayor of the city of New York has the governor of the state to put through an emergency message on the basis of that section. And please, don't tell me that the governor is the governor of the city. Next paragraph, the letter. It was on April 1st, 1938. I received a further written communication from the mayor of the city of New York requesting that I approve the bill. It was approved on April 7th, 1938, and detained after 522 of the laws of that year. There's your answer. What an security to live in this place. Look where we stand in this situation. We are asked in good faith. I didn't have the good fortune to receive a question to ask from the system's use because I wasn't originally nominated for public office. But I say perfectly honest that if I have time, I'm not sure the mayor or the manager of the governor asked him to sign the bill. What good is my pleasure? What good are any of your pleasures? What chance have you to ask? You have none. You have none. And the mayor himself has been through that section in his veto message today. Let's not kid ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm in the middle of a pareratial. I'll be glad to finish the bill and ask me a question. To continue, ladies and gentlemen, and to quote myself going back, let's not kid ourselves. We haven't any power in God's will to act on these bills. None once the rest of it. But here's what happens. Suppose we pass the bill. Now let's look at that. Mind you, we have no power at all to destroy our said violence. But suppose we pass the bill. Election's coming. Election comes November of next year. It takes about 40 days or 35 days to get a case before the Supreme Court. That takes us into late January. Then you get 30 days or so to make your case on the field. And then you wait about 20 or 30 days to be reached on the calendar in the appellate division. That takes us into late March or early April. Then comes the summer. But meanwhile, you've made your case on the field to the Court of Appeals. You put it on the calendar of the Court of Appeals. And then you go away for the summer. And then you come back to the Court of Appeals in October prepared to argue your appeal. And in October, the Court of Appeals, because it is an honest court, would have to hold that these acts we passed today were no good. and then what happens when election comes around? Then the mayor, deprived of his issue, that we refuse to pass the bill, has a new issue in which up and down the state, by then it will probably be around the making, he stands for it. They can't get away with that as long as I have it was. I make no apology for the length of time I've taken to explain this legal point. It's as clear as the note on the most prominent note, being my own, on the face of any councilman in this case. It can't be missed. There it is in the law. Now, I didn't spring this as a surprise. I didn't give you the name until tonight, but the argument you knew all about. And Mrs. Earl was nice enough to say, and I must say to her, of frankness in her, her indulgence of all of us in this is something that I've been very proud of what it is. She was nice enough to say that the specific section which she was discussing of the city home rule law did not apply to county offices. Now, let's assume that Mrs. Earl is right. It doesn't apply to county offices. I'm constrained to call Mrs. Earl's attention to the fact that the court of appeals has held that the section does not apply to city offices. Therefore, if it doesn't apply to county offices and Mrs. Earl is right, and it doesn't apply to city offices and the court of appeals is right, then the section was just written in there to immune some of the boys in Albany in a sense of Venus. Now, I don't think anybody would go to a ghost of the government that a section of the city home rule law was written in merely as a meaningless gesture. Now, let me say something else on that thing. There has been accusation made, and I think very unfairly, that the merits of the various bills have not been discussed. I'd like you to believe when I say that this sheet of papers which I held up representing the proposed amendment to Bill 176 are the result of fairly careful work and research. But, there is no sense presenting an amendment to a bill that can actually pass. If you want to know your remedy, I'll tell it to you. Go to the legislature and get an amendment of the city home rule law. Or get an amendment of the new section of the Constitution. I can't tell you which you mean. It's a very close question. Empowering the city council to act after the legislature has acted, not before it acts. and then we'll have a basis upon which we can go ahead with these laws. We may need a joint commission of the city council and the state legislature to work this out. May we say to our radio audience that they might be slightly surprised at hearing the city council instead of the Sunrise Symphony. Well, I think the city council has covered every period of the grand cycle of the sun from sun to sun in the rather extraordinary meeting which they have held on this day or should I say yesterday. Meeting as they did in the city hall yesterday at 1 p.m. on a special meeting calling for the discussion of the various items in the capital outlay budget. That ran up to practically 9.30 last evening when we went to the Hotel Astor for a brief interlude there with Lottie Lehman, the distinguished Metropolitan Opera star who was being fated because of her becoming an American citizen and then to the 69th Regiment Army for the police graduation and finally back to the council chamber in City Hall where we have been ever since half past 10 last evening. All through the night, and I'm not referring to the Welsh anthem, the council has been in session on the matter of several items in the regular council meeting which was not called until 10.30 p.m. last evening and right on through up to the point which is being discussed now the matter of county reorganization which has been under discussion for a period of about five hours. May we state that because of the necessity of carrying this broadcast to the city council, we have remained in the council chamber and will have to forego the pleasure of the music until such time as the council takes the vote on the final item before it, reorganization of county offices and possibly asks for an adjournment until such time as the next meeting is set. This is the municipal broadcasting system, New York City's own station, WNYC. Mr. Bellowes and Mr. Spellman, both councilmen, are indulging in an explanation of a law that was recently passed at Albany. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... If that's what you got out of my argument, I must have been pretty bad. I never said any such thing nor intended to say it. Well, the impression I got, the impression I got, Mr. Spellman... Are you asking a question? Yes. What is it? The question I want to ask you is whether despite Section 12 of the city home rule and despite the fact that the state legislature did enact the county bill, your laws, 1938, Chapter 552, which you, took quite a bit of time explaining. Despite that fact, is any effect to be given at all to Section 22 of that act, which is a saving fall and was put in there expressly for the purpose of reserving the right in the local legislation here in the city of New York to deal with those matters? Mr. President, may I have a little order here? All right. I've been asked a question, but I think it's only fair that I should rephrase so that we'll all be talking about the same thing. Mr. Feller has specifically asked me whether it is my contention that subdivision 2 of Section 12 of the City Home Rule Law precludes us from acting on these bills in spite of the fact that Section 22 appears in 552 of the laws of 1938. Is that correct? My answer is no. That is not my contention. Well, then, what was your contention? You wanted me to repeat my speech? I have a natural law school being constructed at 6 hour in the morning. Certainly. Everybody else is answering. May I ask Mr. Feldman, chair, this question now. Mr. President, may I say this, Ms. Acting President? I should yield to precisely one more question now because I can't go through this to make my speech ten times. Mr. Feldman, are you aware of the fact that we have in the code in Section 930 the same clause in the county bill? He has stated that and I have stated although I was half asleep. Wait a minute. And do you claim that by virtue of that same Section 12 of the City Home Rule therefore we're precluded from in any way acting on the administrative code or offering any provisions? Mr. President, may I again rephrase that question because the councilman just hasn't followed the argument and I'm going to have to repeat part of it. I'm sorry. I'm not going to get for any representation by Councilman Spellman for the specific benefit of Councilman Fellas because I think after sitting here for so many hours that we should be spared a special course in law. I have no interest in being a lawyer and I don't intend to give any more time to such instruction. And I object to it being explained any further. Mr. President, I require it, Mr. Keith. I should go ahead on this. There has been discussion here, Mr. President, and I think unfairly of the fact that the merits of the various bills have not been discussed. I'm not going to talk while Councilman Scrooge is back here and I think you're going to. Will the Councilman please take a seat? Now, Mr. President, may we have some orders? A little honor, gentlemen. Members of the Council, please. I have made an analysis at a careful one of every one of these bills. I can keep you here for several hours listening to that analysis. But in order that I may not be accused of unfairness, favoritism. I'm going to cover one of the bills only and tell you that it's my considerate vision that that's what is a difficult question. And so that I won't be accused of favoritism in picking the bill, I'm taking the first bill in the order of consideration. That's 176. Now let's see what's the matter with 176. First, section one of the bill abolishes the office of public administrator. But section one of the bill doesn't bother to abolish any of the public administrator's assistance. So that you'll have no public administrator and you'll have a great number of assistance on the city payroll whom you haven't bothered to abolish. section two by creating a new subdivision G of a portion of the city charter provides that by virtue of his office, he, the controller, shall be the public administrator of each of the counties within the city. There is not a word or a syllable in this bill which states what the public administrator should do. He has no duty. He has no obligations. All he's got is a title. A typical Gilbert and Sullivan football. Next. Section four of the bill, apparently at the hands of an amateur bill draftsman, changes some of the words that have stood up in courts of law for centuries. And it changes the obligation of the funds of the administrator. It used to read that his obligation shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duty. So the bill draftsman changes it. I suppose it felt like better English to him. And he changes it to read that it will be conditioned that he will faithfully perform his duty. And all that does, Mr. President, is this. It means that in a suit by the city of New York on that fund, the burden of proof is on the city of New York to show that the public administrator was dishonest and changes the burden of proof that used to be on the public administrator to show that he was honest. He's out of the radio. On page two, line two of the bill, it is provided that the fund of the public administrator shall be conditioned upon his returning and faithfully keeping the monies entrusted to his care. And that's all they say about it. Mr. President, any neophyte in the law school knows that the job of the public administrator is not merely to act as a plate of deposit. His job is to go out and get funds when they belong to the estate and sue people if he must do it. And there's not a word in this bill that makes him do that. And yet they eliminate the provisions of law that today require public administrators to do that. These are specific objections to just one bill. Let's go ahead. Section five of the bill on line 11 provides that he should turn over the money that comes into his hands after deducting all actual and necessary expenses. What a provision. The controller is going to be the administrator. The controller is going to decide what are the necessary expenses. There is no provision there for a review by the surrogate of those expenses. That's all out of the bill. You eliminated that in your appeal section. And then the controller, as the controller of the city of New York, stepping out of his function as public administrator, meets himself on the street one fine day, and he says, Joe, I'm talking to you as administrator, and I am Joe the controller. Now, Joe the administrator, will you please give me, Joe the controller, your account, and I will audit your account and tell you whether you've deducted too much for expenses. The controller of the city of New York will be auditing his own account, and that's meant to be decent and even fair bill drafting. I say, Mr. President, that it doesn't even make English. Next. The salary of the controller shall be in lieu of all fees, percentages, commissions, emoluments, and perquisites for discharging the duties of his office as public administrator. May I suggest to the drafter of this bill that if any public administrator of the city of New York took perquisites of his office, he'd go to jail for accepting a bribe. And anybody who can read English short to know that. But what do they do in the next section? The next section provides, I don't mean the next, I mean line 24 to 27 on page 2, that the corporation counsel shall be the counsel to the controller and shall be entitled to receive the customary fees and allowances. In other words, they cut out the fees and allowances in one section, and then they give them to somebody else in the next section. So he gets the salary, he gets fees, he gets allowances, he gets necessary expenses, and he decides what's right, and there is no court in Christendom provided for to audit his account. But they go further than that. In lines 13 to 18 on page 3 of the bill, they do something that even in the highest degree of optimism, nobody should believe the city council has the right to do. that. They provide that all pending proceedings shall not be abated and nothing shall happen to them. In other words, they provide in a local law of the city of New York that the Civil Practice Act in effect shall be amended in a situation where even the legislature wouldn't have the power to make the amendment because it would be a violation of the due process law. And if you want to have any doubt about that, gentlemen, let me tell you that I investigated the subject very carefully when I wrote Spelman's Criminal Code of New York that's now used in the court, and when I annotated section 11 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which was declared unconstitutional and read word for word practically, as this section does. A fine piece of bill grammar. Now let's look at section 9 on page 3. I'm sorry to take so much time. But I can't find anything right in the bill. On section 9 on page 3, they say this. The public administrator of each of the counties within the city shall surrender to the controller all books, records, documents, papers in his custody, and shall account to the controller for all money and property in his custody. Isn't that a magnificent provision? Every other administrator in the city of New York, whether he be a private administrator or an executor or a public administrator upon leaving office, must account for his funds not to the controller of the city of New York, but to the surrogate of the county of New York. And here you have a provision that he's going to account for the money that he turns over to the surrogate, I mean to the controller, and the person who's going to audit those accounts is the controller who's going to get the money. I'd love to run a business on that basis, and I'm sure that nobody else would do it. Yes. I know that there are not other people. I do carry the test. I was effectively direct that the point that I'm moving is this, that there is no other funds anywhere in any statute that I can find in the state, but alone in the city, where money is turned over to the controller, and he audits whether he receives the collector man. But what does that mean? That makes no such provision, because there is a provision in the shop that here to go existing officers of their functions are being replaced by the new officer. There is no turning over of funds. The funds still stayed in the same decision fund, and merely a new man could sign the trust fund. But there is no accounting of his funds, so no, not into a objection, is it? There is not no objection. There are actions like that in the terminal of the funds, the controller order whether the collector man is returned, whereas in this situation, to which you refer, the order is annually given to the board of estimate, and they make the file. And may I just say, in section of the audit, that the commission of investigation, as the way, the right audit, those are the ones that happen. The commission of investigation, I make any order for the case. Yes. I would get the case, and I'm sure that the job of one of them accepts work in the city conference, in the city service, to go to the man he told and receive the phone. I'll let you see that you can do, I don't know you can do the bill. I think it's funny. Is the gentleman deliberately detourting the back, or is he doing it too easy? Can Mr. Blum point out a single distortion of the box? I think it'll take it. The gentleman's attention to me. At this point, Mr. Blum point, Mr. President, we've spent hours here listening to the gentleman tell us that because of the certain statute of testing law beneath, he can't act here. And he doesn't apparently know the rule of law that the effect of a substitute statute supersedes the previous statute. Mr. Blum point out a single distortion. We have that right here. And he probably seems to think here that we can't act on it. It's not true. Mr. President, what may I say? But the reason that I say we cannot act is because a subsequent statute supersedes an earlier statute, and because 550 years in later. Mr. Blum point out a single distortion. I'm going to yield to another person. I yield to one more question. Mr. Blum point out a single distortion. I'd like to know why it's taken you some nine months to discover all these fallacies in these bills. Why it's taken you in fact for 20 minutes to 8 AM and the morning of December 20th. These bills were introduced in January. And why also you've had 17 other excuses as to why you couldn't vote for these bills until you discovered this particular barrel of excuses this morning at this hour. Will you answer that question? Mr. Blum point out exactly the time that you have. Your 17 and 11 excuses is a deliberate lie, not a distortion of the fact. You don't know what you're talking about. You called me up your shirt a week ago last Saturday and asked whether I'd sit in with you and help draft shows on the floor. I said we have no power to act on them. Do you remember that at that time? I said that hold me up. Do you remember what you said at that time, Mr. President? I must object to this disorderly receiving. And you will see, while you're sitting in that chair, I'm going to start in the face of all of our families and we shall have them and shall have them and shall have them and shall have them and shall. Mr. President, may I say this? I said add in social injuries and try to out here Mr. Krause and have known ability to be in social. It's a very fine thing. It's a family trade. I've known it in a number of members of the family. I can't accept the bill further. I think I've made one point. Mr. President, may we again remind our fellow citizens and fellow New Yorkers that instead of the Sunrise Symphony, you are listening to the later proceedings of the City Council, which has been in session all night. In fact, it has been in constant session since 1 p.m. yesterday afternoon. The only recess being taken was an hour last evening at approximately 10 minutes after 9, when we took two remote broadcasts, one from the Hotel Astor as a tribute to Lolly Lehmann, the opera singer, on the occasion of her admission to citizenship in our own great United States, and to accept into the police department of the city of New York, the aspiring fine athletes who have sworn allegiance to the great army of blue and took their place in the service of the city of New York, as well as several recruits who were accepted for the police academy in the presence of the mayor and Commissioner Valentine. Coming to this council chamber immediately after the police graduation, we have been here ever since. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System, New York City's own station, WNYC. Councilman Shanzer is speaking. ...in the City of New York, are willing to stay through an all-night session and almost a 24-hour session. To debate the merits of legislation before them, I think that we don't have much to worry about. There were some statements here and elsewhere that this was a filibuster on the part of the Democratic majority. In the first place, Mr. President, the majority never has to filibuster. Filibuster is a device of a minority to prevent a vote in which they are bound to lose. But a majority can and usually does control the result of the vote so they don't have to filibuster. We did not try to uselessly waste time because we asked that all these bills be considered and debated at one time, so that these speeches would not be repeated in connection with every bill that would come before us. Now some of the members in the heat of debate gave voice to sentiments which I think on common considerations they would not express. In the first place, I heard Councilman Quill make some observations on the alleged impropriety of Brother Serplice's son acting as one of the counters on the proportional representation vote. I happen to know that that was entirely inadvertent. That the youngster came in as a substitute when there were no other regulars available from the Republican Party. Now Mr. President, this is on the floor. This is actually anybody you pay for. Will the gentleman please direct himself to the bill to not start to hold it up to other than race? Willow will be up on a point of order, Shant and his surface will be up on one, and I'll be collapsing. Now I've been sitting here very patiently listening to everyone. It's all more recently than I have, and I have some information to give to Council on this, these measures, and I'm waiving it out of consideration to the other members' patience. Mr. Sander, I think that we're all anxious to conclude here, I think, and come to a vote. Comparatively brief statement, and I think I have a right to cover what the members covered before me. All right, proceed. And I'm going to do it. Now there were references here to Roosevelt, to LaGuardia, and to Hitler. I want to say for one that I don't like to hear mentioned in the same breath. Either the name of Roosevelt or even LaGuardia with Hitler. Because while LaGuardia may have a Napoleonic complex, while he's inclined to be domineering and at times tyrannous, I don't know of any intolerance in his makeup. And I don't want those names mentioned with a man who is the personification of black persecution today. Now there's been a great deal said here, and I have received some very scurrilous letters about there being a mandate from the people to us to vote for these alleged county reorganization bills. Well, on October 7, 1937, when I was a candidate for the Office of Councilman, I received an inquiry from the New Yorker asked me whether I was in the citywide register and a few other questions. And what answer did I make? Did I refuse to answer the questionnaire so that nobody would know how I felt about it? I did not. I sent in a reply and it was published in the New York, in the New York World telegram on October 28, 1937, a few days before election, in which my name was listed as replying my opposition to a citywide sheriff and a citywide register. Therefore, Mr. President, I was not elected under any illusions on the part of the electorate that voted for me. And I deceived no one. And when I sent in those answers, I had people say to me, Why in the parlance of the street do you stick your neck out for the execution? They too thought that the people of the city of New York, that the people of the borough of Brooklyn wanted the consolidation of these officers. And that any man who had the temerity to say that he was against those consolidations would be defeated. And what happened? When the votes were counted, I had the second highest total among the Democratic candidates. And practically the same vote in numbers as the sponsor of these bills. Now then, there was another gentleman, and the only one running on the Democratic ticket in the borough of Brooklyn, and we have the largest block of councilmen in the citywide. And the only Democrat that answered that he favored a citywide sheriff. He answered that he favored a citywide register. The only Democrat running for councilman that answered in the affirmative. And his name was Louis J. Gribbett. And he is not a member of the city council. Now we were elected on the Democratic ticket in the borough of Brooklyn. And we have the largest block of councilmen in this body. We had five elected from the borough of Brooklyn as against two labor rights, one Republican, and one Fusion. So what do the people of the borough of Brooklyn want? Because there wasn't a single one of the Democratic candidates for councilmen in Brooklyn last fall that said he favored a citywide sheriff or he favored a citywide register. So much for your mandate. Now somebody once remarked, as my classical friend on the other side might say, that language was made to conceal thought. And these bills are put in here under the guise of economy. You talk to me of economy. An administration that tried to buy the transit facilities of the city of New York for $436 million, they were stopped by main force by a combination of Democratic and Republican transit commissioners. And now the price is down to $350 million, $121 million less. Why it would take you $302 years saving $400,000 a year, which you can't claim you to save by these bills before you will accumulate that difference of $121 million that was saved by the despised members of the Democratic and the Republican parties. And now the government is not the government. You talk of economy. Why in an attempt to grab power in this council, in an attempt to grab the majority of this council, you spent $878,000 just to count the votes of the councilmen. You spent $33,769.23 to count the ballots of every $5,000 a year man in this council. Why would I tell that to the average citizens and he sent a guy and a gig after you're driving some of the things? If a commercial concern did that, why they'd have a suit by a stockholder for dissipation of assets. And then you know, you don't elect the councilmen forever. It is not an indefinite term. Every two years you're going to spend $33,769.23 just to count the votes of a $5,000 a year man. I never heard of anything so ridiculous. Yes, you're going to tell me you're going to get machines to count the votes. I know there are primaries for every kind of office and one more or less doesn't mean a thing. It's an expense. It just lengthens the paper a little bit and that's all there is to it. Now you're going to tell me you're going to get machines to count these ballots hereafter. Well, I happen to know that from inquiry that these machines originally would cost you $3 million right off the bat. You don't know how long they would stay in order and it would require an army of men again to count the votes on those machines. Don't talk to me of economy. The various councilmen who preceded me showed you by legal authority that some of these bills are absolutely innocuous if I may use that term. They're not worth the paper they're written on. They cited authorities. I'll give you some more. I'll give you an authority from the Court of Appeals where the opinion was written by Judge Lehman, the brother of the governor. What did he have to say? This court has held in construing other statutes that a clerk of the District Court of the City of New York is a judicial officer, embraced within the judiciary system of the state and not strictly as city officer. We have held that the surrogate of the county of New York is not an official or employee in the city or county of New York within the meaning of Section 149A of the charter. The legislature of the city of New York can't do a thing to affect an officer appointed by the surrogate of the county of New York or any other county because they have no power over him. If you want further law on the subject, get it from another court of appeals decision in the case of Brenda Gas against Kohalan where the Comptroller on the authority of the city legislature tried to control the surrogate's office. What did the court say? What did the court say? The special term held at Section 149A of the charter of New York City, which provides for the furnishing of detailed reports as required by the Comptroller, was not applicable to the surrogate of New York County. In as much as the surrogates were not counties, but judicial officers of the state. And therefore, both the surrogates and their employees are state officers and employees. And among the judges that concurred in this opinion was Judge Benjamin Cardozo, who went to the United States Supreme Court because of his acknowledged planning and ability. You're going to tell me you're not interested in Ripple legislation? Why pick up the New York Times of Friday, December 16th. And again, you'll find the title Ex-City Employee Upheld. The article runs a jury in Supreme Court before Justice William T. Collins found unanimously that he was not Democrats, not Democratic members of the council, but a jury of citizens. That William Conway, former general manager of the Brooklyn Salvage Company, had been unjustly dismissed as a superintendent of final disposition in the sanitation department. And so on and so forth. And he is being reinstated by virtue of the finding of that jury. And so on. All down the line. These bills represent nothing but a grab for power. That is all. They don't need a thing in the saving of money. Mr. Batger here said that he believes in a separation of governmental power. Certainly. You have a mayor in the city of New York now who doesn't like to be bound by judicial decisions. And suppose the Supreme Court issues an order to him. Who are you going to give it to execute? To his own appointee? If you haven't got the sheriff who's an officer of the Supreme Court, now you can give it to the sheriff. Supreme Court, and he'll execute it. He'll make the city officers obey it. But abolish the office of sheriff. Have the mayor appoint him. And what have you got? Nothing. You say this is not a patronage grab. Where did you ever see a four-year mayor ask to appoint a six-year officer if he didn't want to cement him in the job? What did they do with the employees in the Corporation Counsel's office? They appointed him and then they covered him into the civil service and cemented them in. Is that a patronage grab or not? Now let's get down to cases. Just a minute. As a very well-known lawyer, may I... Mr. Morris, I haven't yielded to you. I'm not going to debate any further at this late hour at practically 8 o'clock. You've won your case and your clients are satisfied. I'm glad you think so. But I want to say to you that I am at... ...of congratulating both Mr. Novak... Novak... ...and the employees of WNYC for their kindness here tonight, their patience, and the splendid way in which I believe they have broadcasted these meetings. These meetings. Are we all in? I'm all in. All right. I'm all in for this question. Call the roll. Call the roll. The roll is being called under motion. I believe, Mr. President, that Mr. Boyle, when made the motion, was it to couple them all? Well, they are coupled already. It's not strong. It's a separate item, but I'm very glad to couple them at this late hour. So we vote on all the bills if that's... All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Mr. Chairman, on roll call, I desire to explain my vote. I'm very, very brief, gentlemen. I waited and utilized this privilege because I didn't want to stand here and cause perhaps a little more anxiety and debate. I'm very brief. As I said at the last meeting of the council, I stand with Mrs. Earl. I stand with her and her presentation of her case to the council and to the people that we represent. One who was elected, agreeing, if elected, to come here and vote for county reform, I have the privilege, and I will not take the opportunity of voicing or disputing any of my colleagues on the other side, but even though they have some learned counsel, I still believe in the presentation of Our Lady Councilman, and therefore I vote in favor of this county reform. All right. Mr. President. I pay very close attention to the art and strong cards. I might also say that I, I have a very close attention to the art and strong cards. I might also say that I answered a question here about a year or so ago with a provision, if I remember rightly, that I was in favor of county reform providing it did not disturb or in the borough that privilege called whole rules. These bills take away everything to the people of the county that they're entitled to have. And I particularly call your attention to that six year clause of the sheriff's bill, which I do not think is favorable to the people of Queen County or any county. But after all, if you're going to have the mayor appoint the sheriff, let his term expire with the mayor's term. I can go through all the other bills. But I've listened very carefully. My mind was open. And I vote no. Conrad. No. Hearing. No. Mrs. Vannis. No. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Maure... Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Roswell. Mrs. Teitch. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. That William. Mrs. Pinnis. Uh-huh. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Vannis. Mrs. Megalmeal. Remember the council? What are these bills? What are these bills? What are these bills? Is the fact that this council for three years has currently been approved to...