Your Health Department serves you. The New York City Department of Health presents the last in the series of talks on preventable diseases. Today, Dr. Bernard Greenberg, Borough Chief of the Bureau of Preventable Diseases, will be interviewed by Mr. Frank Hoff of the Bureau of Health Education. The topic for this morning's discussion is dysentery. Dr. Greenberg, isn't dysentery just a fancy name for diarrhea? No, Mr. Hoff. Dysentery is the name given to certain diseases which can attack the intestinal symptom. A person suffering from a form of dysentery usually has diarrhea during the progress of the disease, but a person who has diarrhea does not necessarily suffer from dysentery. Well, Dr. Greenberg, what are some of the forms of dysentery? There are two important ones I would like to discuss today. The first of these is called bacillary dysentery, the second amoebic dysentery. Well, what are the chief symptoms of dysentery? Dysentery is characterized by bloody mucoid excreta, which are accompanied with abdominal cramps. I might also add that the two forms of dysentery we will discuss, bacillary and amoebic, are hand-to-mouth infections. That is, the disease is carried into the mouth by food, flies, or fingers containing the dysentery germs. Well, Dr. Greenberg, which dysentery infection shall we discuss first, bacillary or amoebic? Let's start with bacillary, mainly because it's the more common of the two and it frequently appears in epidemic forms. Well, bacillary dysentery epidemics have been a problem for many years, haven't they, Dr. Greenberg? They've been a problem for centuries, Mr. Hough. Bacillary dysentery is a disease which was well known to the early Romans and Greeks. Its persistence throughout the ages, in spite of the fact that it is a preventable disease, is a challenge to public health workers everywhere. Is bacillary dysentery widely distributed throughout the world? Yes, it is. It occurs all over the world, all seasons of the year, but it is more prevalent and severe in the tropics. In temperate zones, it is more prevalent during the summer than in the other seasons. Whom do the disease usually attack? It affects people of all ages, from infancy to adult life. In some outbreaks, as many as 30% of those infected have died of the disease. It has been one of the chief causes of summer diarrhea in infants, and it has long been recognized as a major military disease. Well, I remember reading a book, Dr. Greenberg, in which General Stilwell commented upon the seriousness of bacillary dysentery as it affected troops during the Burma Road campaign in the last war. Yes. Next to malaria, it was the most troublesome disease during World War II among the American forces in tropical areas. And it was the second greatest disease threat in number of cases among overseas troops in all areas overseas. Dr. Greenberg, isn't bacillary dysentery sometimes referred to as asylum or camp fever? That's correct. Practically all of the dysentery which occurred in institutions such as hospitals, asylums, and in camps, were of bacillary origin. Overcrowding, filth, and other unhygienic conditions which unfortunately prevailed in some of these institutions favored its spread. Well, what are some of the symptoms of bacillary dysentery, Doctor? The three chief symptoms of acute bacillary dysentery are diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. The diarrheal secretions are streaked with blood and mucus. The diarrheal attacks are so frequent that they leave the patient weak and exhausted. Well, what's the cause of bacillary dysentery? The disease is caused by bacteria. And as I mentioned before, it's an infection in which some of these bacteria have spread from person to person through the media of food, flies, and fingers. Flies are often responsible for carrying the germs from infected matter to food and water. Well, how long does it take for the symptoms of this disease to appear after a person has become infected with the bacteria? About two to seven days. The susceptibility to this type of dysentery depends largely on the condition of the mucus lining of the intestines. This membrane is really the first line of defense, for on its condition depends whether or not the bacillary dysentery bacilli can penetrate it and produce the disease. Is there such a thing as a dysentery carrier, Dr. Greenberg? Yes, there is. Carriers are infected persons who harbor the germs of the disease without having symptoms. These carriers play an important part in the spread of bacillary dysentery because the bacteria pass out in the excreta of the infected persons. Although the bacteria disappear from the stools of those having mild attacks of the disease, in some cases the organism may be recovered for weeks after convalescence, sometimes even longer. Well then, that should certainly call for the observance of a strict personal hygiene on the part of any person suffering from this disease, especially if the person is a carrier and a food handler. That's correct. Well, Dr. Greenberg, what treatment is given a person suffering from bacillary dysentery? Various serums and drugs are used in treating the disease. The sulfa drugs have been of a special value. A proper diet is also required. I've heard, Dr. Greenberg, that in the past few years, bacillary dysentery epidemics have become more prevalent. Is that true? Yes. Since 1933, an increase in incidence of the disease among civilians throughout the world has been noticed. In the United States, the number of reported cases in 1944 was approximately 60 times greater than in 1933. How about the incidence here in New York City? In New York City, the picture is brighter. The reported incidence of bacillary dysentery has shown a decrease. In 1945, there were 423 reported cases. In 1947, there were only 65 reported cases. This decrease in cases may be due to a less virulent strain of the bacillary dysentery. At the present time, amoebic dysentery is of greater significance in our city because of the greater immigration from tropical areas where this form of dysentery is very prevalent. And that brings us to a discussion of the second important dysentery disease. What's the difference between bacillary dysentery and amoebic dysentery, Dr. Greenberg? Well, is that the germ, mainly the germ which causes the disease. Amoebic dysentery is not caused by bacteria, as is bacillary dysentery. Amoebic dysentery is caused by a protozoa known as an amoeba, which is a one-celled animal, the lowest form of animal life. Does amoebic dysentery differ from bacillary dysentery in any other ways? It does in several respects. While bacillary dysentery is an acute, self-limiting disease, amoebic dysentery has a slow onset and it often becomes chronic. Bacillary dysentery is rarely followed by complication, but a liver abscess commonly follows an attack of amoebic dysentery. Is there also a difference in the time it takes for the symptoms of amoebic dysentery to appear? Yes, the period between ingestion of the amoeba which caused dysentery and the appearance of symptoms is a long one, while the period of incubation for bacillary dysentery is rarely more than a week. Well, what are the symptoms of amoebic dysentery, Doctor? The symptoms are characterized by a bloody mucoid excreta which leaves the patient weak. In this respect, amoebic dysentery resembles bacillary dysentery. However, no immunity is conferred by an attack of the amoebic form, while an attack of the bacillary dysentery seems to confer some degree of protection against further attacks. In another respect, amoebic dysentery, in common with bacillary dysentery, gives rise to caries of the disease. Does amoebic dysentery attack all ages of the population? No. Unlike bacillary dysentery, amoebic dysentery is uncommon among children. What treatment is given a patient with amoebic dysentery? Specific drugs are used, as well as a proper diet. Well, how does amoebic dysentery spread? In the vast majority of cases, persons who fall victim to amoebic dysentery become infected through food or water contaminated with amoeba. Such contamination is likely to occur through infected food handlers who do not thoroughly cleanse their hands with soap and water after attending to personal needs. It is also spread by flies, which have access to human excreta and to food. Raw milk or water contaminated directly or indirectly by caries have also been a source of infection and spread. Chronic carriers are considered a chief source of spreading the infection. Dr. Greenberg, does amoebic dysentery frequently appear in epidemic form? No, not frequently. However, the epidemic of amoebic dysentery, which was traced to the Century of Progress exposition at Chicago in 1933, is a notable exception. This epidemic was waterborne. Defective plumbing was responsible for the pollution of the water. Cases of the disease contracted there were reported by more than 400 cities in 43 states, the territory of Hawaii, and three Canadian provinces. Well, I would imagine, Dr. Greenberg, that the history of that epidemic makes an interesting story. Yes, it does. The Chicago Board of Health and the Division of Water Purification joined with the United States Public Health Service to investigate the source of this epidemic. They found the majority of people infected were guests at one of two long-established hotels. Although many of these persons had not eaten at either of the hotels, all of them presumably drank water there. These hotels were adjacent and had an unusual service relationship. One of them was, in part, supplied with electricity, steam, and water from the other. Because of the large number of guests during the exposition and excessive rainfall, the sewers in both hotels were overloaded. Drainage loads were placed on sewer lines in excess of their safe carrying capacities. This was especially true of one gravity sewer in the basement of one of the hotels, with which two principal points of possible pollution of the water supply was associated. Two cross-connections in that hotel joined an overhead sewer to condenser water discharge pipes. This water was first used for cooling purposes and then was distributed throughout one hotel and the upper floors of the other. The second point of possible pollution was an old, rotting wooden plug in an overhead sewer which permitted leakage into the cool drinking water below. Did the investigation reveal where the amoeba originated? Yes, in one of the hotel employees. A contributing factor to the epidemic was the heavy infestation with the dysentery amoeba of other hotel employees, and probably of guests who remained for longer than average periods, thus making any pollution of the water with hotel sewage exceptionally hazardous. Well, Dr. Greenberg, that certainly was a dramatic epidemic. Because of what happened in that epidemic, and in untold others, I should think that dysentery, whether it be of the bacillary form or the amoebic form, is well worth watching out for. It most certainly is. Dysentery is a preventable disease. In view of what I've said about its modes of transmission, the ways in which it can be prevented are quite obvious. As soon as a person becomes ill with the symptoms of dysentery, abdominal cramps, bloody mucoid diarrhea, fever, he should be isolated until an examination of his stools has been made to determine whether or not the infecting organism is still present. Immediate isolation is of particular importance in an institution to avert the possibility of an epidemic. The patient, as well as those that come in contact with him, should thoroughly wash their hands in soap and warm water and cleanse their fingernails several times a day, especially before preparing or eating food. And all contacts to a case of dysentery should be examined for possible carriers, regardless of whether or not they have symptoms of the disease. These healthy carriers may be the source of outbreaks of dysentery. If dysentery is prevalent in a household or community, sanitary measures and regulations are the most effective weapons in controlling the spread of the infection. Thank you, Dr. Greenberg, for this very interesting discussion on dysentery. The New York City Department of Health, in cooperation with radio station WNYC, has brought you the last in a series of discussions on preventable diseases. The topic for today was dysentery. Our spokesman for the Department of Health, Dr. Bernard Greenberg, Borough Chief of the Bureau of Preventable Diseases. Your health department serves you. The New York City Department of Health presents the last in a series of talks on preventable diseases. Today, Dr. Bernard Greenberg, Borough Chief of the Bureau of Preventable Diseases, will be interviewed by Mr. Frank Hoff of the Bureau of Health Education. The topic for this morning's discussion is dysentery. Dr. Greenberg, isn't dysentery just a fancy name for diarrhea? Yes, Mr. Hoff. Dysentery is the name given to certain diseases which attack the intestinal system. A person suffering from a form of dysentery usually has diarrhea during the progress of the disease. But a person who has diarrhea does not necessarily suffer from dysentery. Well, what are some of the forms of dysentery? There are two important ones I should like to discuss today. The first of these is called bacillary dysentery. The second, amoebic dysentery. Well, what are the chief symptoms of dysentery? Dysentery is characterized by bloody mucoid excreta, which are accompanied with abdominal cramps. I might also add that the two forms of dysentery we will discuss, bacillary and amoebic, are hand-to-mouth infections. That is, the disease is carried into the mouth by food, flies, or fingers containing the dysentery germs. Which dysentery infection shall we discuss first, Dr. Greenberg, bacillary or amoebic? Let's start with bacillary, mainly because it's the more common of the two and it frequently appears in epidemic form. Well, bacillary dysentery epidemics have been a problem for many years, haven't they, Dr. Greenberg? They've been a problem for centuries, Mr. Hopp. Bacillary dysentery is a disease which was well known even to the early Romans and Greeks. Its persistence through the ages, in spite of the fact that it is a preventable disease, is a challenge to public health workers everywhere. Is bacillary dysentery widely distributed throughout the world? Yes, it is. It occurs all over the world, all seasons of the year, but it is more prevalent and severe in the tropics. In temperate zones, it is more prevalent during the summer than in other seasons. Dr. Greenberg, whom does the disease usually attack? It affects people of all ages, from infancy to adult life. In some outbreaks, as many as 30% of those infected have died of the disease. It has been one of the chief causes of summer diarrhea in infants, and it has long been recognized as a major military disease. Well, I remember reading a book, Dr. Greenberg, in which General Stilwell commented upon the seriousness of bacillary dysentery as it affected troops during the Burma Road campaign in the last war. Yes, next to malaria, it was one of the most troublesome diseases during World War II among the American forces in tropical areas. And it was the second greatest disease threat in numbers of cases among overseas troops in all of the areas overseas. Dr. Greenberg, isn't bacillary dysentery sometimes referred to as asylum or camp fever? That's correct. Practically all of the dysentery which occurred in institutions, such as hospitals, asylums, and in camps, was a bacillary origin. Overcrowding, filth, and other unhygienic conditions which unfortunately prevailed, some of these institutions favored its spread. What are some of the symptoms of bacillary dysentery, Dr.? The three chief symptoms of acute bacillary dysentery are diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. The diarrheal excreta are streaked with blood and mucus. The diarrheal attacks are so frequent that they leave the patient very weak and exhausted. What's the cause of bacillary dysentery? The disease is caused by bacteria. And as I mentioned before, it's an infection in which these bacteria spread from person to person through the media of food, flies, and fingers. Flies are often responsible for carrying the germs from infected matter to food and water. Dr. Greenberg, how long does it take for the symptoms of this disease to appear after a person has become infected with the bacteria? About two to seven days. The susceptibility of this type of dysentery depends largely on the condition of the mucus lining of the intestines. This membrane is really the first line of defense, for on its condition depends whether or not the bacillary dysentery bacilli can penetrate it and produce the disease. Is there any such thing as a dysentery carrier, Dr. Greenberg? Yes, there is. Carriers are infected persons who harbor the germs of the disease without having any symptoms. These carriers play an important part in the spread of bacillary dysentery because the bacilli pass out of the excreta of the infected persons. Although the bacilli disappear from the stools of those having mild attacks of the disease, in some cases the organism may be recovered from two to six weeks after convalescence, sometimes even longer. Well then that should certainly call for the observance of strict personal hygiene on the part of any person suffering from this disease, especially if the person is a carrier and a food handler. That's correct. Well Dr. Greenberg, what treatment is given a person suffering from bacillary dysentery? There are various serums and drugs which are used in treating the disease. The sulfur drugs have been of a special value. A proper diet is also required. I've heard, Dr. Greenberg, that in the past few years bacillary dysentery epidemics have become more prevalent. Is that true? Yes. Since 1933, an increase in incidence of the disease among civilians throughout the world has been noticed. In the United States, the number of reported cases in 1944 was approximately 60 times greater than that in 1933. Well how about the incidents here in New York City? In New York City, the picture is brighter. The reported incidents of bacillary dysentery have shown a decrease. In 1945, there were 423 cases reported. In 1947, there were only 65 reported cases. This disease, this decrease in cases may be due to a less virulent strain of the bacillary dysentery. At the present time, amoebic dysentery is of greater significance in our city because of the greater immigration from tropical areas where this form of dysentery is very prevalent. Well, and that brings us to a discussion of the second important dysentery disease. What's the difference between bacillary dysentery and amoebic dysentery? Mainly the organism which causes the disease. Amoebic dysentery is not caused by bacteria as is bacillary dysentery. Amoebic dysentery is caused by a protozoa known as an amoeba, which is a one-celled animal, lowest form of animal life. Does amoebic dysentery differ from bacillary dysentery in any other ways? It does in several respects. While bacillary dysentery is an acute, self-limiting disease, amoebic dysentery has a slow onset and is often becomes chronic. Bacillary dysentery is rarely followed by complications, but a liver abscess commonly follows an attack of amoebic dysentery. Is there also a difference in the time it takes for the symptoms of this disease to appear? Yes. The period between ingestion of the amoeba, which causes dysentery, and the appearance of symptoms is a long one. While this period of incubation for bacillary dysentery is rarely more than a week. Well, what are the symptoms of amoebic dysentery, Doctor? The symptoms are characterized by bloody mucoid excreta, which leave the patient weak. In this respect, amoebic dysentery resembles bacillary dysentery. However, no immunity is conferred by an attack of the amoebic form, while an attack of bacillary dysentery seems to confer some degree of protection against further attacks. In another respect, amoebic dysentery, in common with bacillary dysentery, give rise to caries of the disease. Does amoebic dysentery attack all ages of the population? No. Unlike bacillary dysentery, amoebic dysentery is uncommon among children. What treatment is given a patient with amoebic dysentery? There are certain specific drugs which are used, as well as a proper diet. Well, how does amoebic dysentery spread? In the vast majority of cases, persons who fall victim to amoebic dysentery become infected through water or food contaminated with the amoeba. Such contamination is likely to occur through infected food handlers who do not thoroughly cleanse their hands with soap and water after attending to personal needs. It also spreads by flies, which have access to both human excreta and to food. Raw milk or water contaminated directly or indirectly by caries have also been a source of infection and spread. Chronic caries are considered a chief cause of spreading the infection. Does amoebic dysentery frequently appear in epidemic form? No, not frequently. However, the epidemic of amoebic dysentery, which was traced to the Century of Progress exposition at Chicago in 1933, is a notable exception. That epidemic was waterborne. The effect of plumbing was responsible for the pollution of the water. Cases of the disease contracted there were reported by more than 400 cities in 43 states, the territory of Hawaii, and three Canadian provinces. Well, I would imagine, Dr. Greenberg, that the history of that epidemic makes an interesting story. Yes, it does. The Chicago Board of Health and Division of Water Purification joined with the United States Public Health Service to investigate the source of this epidemic. They found the majority of people infected were guests at one of two long-established hotels. Although many of these persons had not eaten at either of the hotels, all of them presumably drank water there. These hotels were adjacent and had an unusual service relationship. One of them was, in part, supplied with electricity, steam, and water from the other. Because of the large number of guests during the exposition and excessive rainfall, the sewers in both hotels were overloaded. Drainage loads were placed on sewer lines in excess of their safe carrying capacities. This was especially true of one gravity sewer in the basement of one of the hotels, with which two principal points of possible pollution of the water supply was associated. Two cross connections in that hotel joined an overhead sewer to condenser water discharge pipes. This water was first used for cooling purposes and then was distributed throughout one hotel and the upper floors of the other. The second point of possible pollution was an old rotting wooden plug in an overhead sewer which permitted leakage into the cooling drinking water below. Did the investigation reveal where the amoeba originated? Yes, in one of the hotel employees. The contributing factor to the epidemic was a heavy infestation with the dysentery amoeba of other hotel employees, and probably of guests who remained for longer than average periods, thus making any pollution of the water with hotel sewers exceptionally hazardous. Well, that certainly was a traumatic epidemic. Because of what happened in that epidemic, and in untold others, I should think that dysentery, whether it be of the bacillary form or the amoebic form, is well worth watching out for. It most certainly is. Dysentery is a preventable disease. In view of what I've said about its mode of transmission, the ways in which it can be prevented are quite obvious. As soon as a person becomes ill with the symptoms of dysentery, that is abdominal cramps, bloody mucoid diarrhea, and fever, he should be isolated until an examination of his stools have been made to determine whether or not the infecting organism is present. Immediate isolation is of particular importance in institutions to avert the possibility of an epidemic. The patient, as well as those who come in contact with him, should thoroughly wash their hands in soap and water, and cleanse their fingernails several times a day, especially before preparing or eating food. And all contacts to a case of dysentery should be examined for possible carriers, regardless of whether or not they have the symptoms of the disease. These healthy carriers may be the source of outbreaks of dysentery. If dysentery is prevalent in a household or community, sanitary measures and regulations are the most effective weapons in controlling the spread of the infection. Well, thank you, Dr. Greenberg. The New York City Department of Health, in cooperation with WNYC, has brought you the last in a series of discussions on preventable diseases. The topic for today was dysentery. And our spokesman for the Department of Health, Dr. Bernard Greenberg, Borough Chief of the Bureau of Preventable Diseases. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Homens like this... That should help us. I couldn't help us with the不要 and let theב�ies record of this movie. Next thing, if we go to DO running theрокum, 12 and minor otherwise. This has to disable, you know, not have aeded cartridge of mathematical disorders. It would kill us with our tradition. It would kill us with those<|ca|> here that won't be your birthing. like this, stick together! We have clean summer vocation with, and only, todayält, weathered the sale men. Look for evening days! Dishes, dearly microwave. Lead of employees. And the other units on the phaser. This roundingети and encourage us to note what I can tie the others restrict usavor to near our speculation, Install them, purchase a little bit, and a ہو-by your bekommen, feminin.