Howard, children, I'm very happy to greet you today and to thank you for this magnificent salute to I am an American day. The music, the songs, the recitations, the dances, all so beautifully done make us proud of our schools. It occurred to me that what we have been feeling is a thrill at being, like all of you, American, of being part of a nation which recognizes the rights of free people and permits them to enjoy the blessings with which God has endowed them. I am an American day. It's a day when all citizens, both native-born and naturalized, should reflect on the rights and privileges which are theirs as citizens and give solemn thanks for the opportunities which are open to them by reason of that citizenship. In this spirit, the city of New York has again arranged an official I am an American day ceremony. This will be held on Sunday afternoon on the Mall at Central Park, and I want to take this opportunity of extending to all of our people a cordial invitation to be present. Remember, children, this is your show. The admission is free, and thousands of seats will be provided for your comfort and convenience. Everybody should make it a must to come to Central Park on Sunday, and in order that my invitation may reach into every section of New York City, I, here and now, appoint each of you children as a special honorary member of the I am an American Day committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In my name, please invite your parents, your relatives, and your neighbors to join us on Sunday afternoon. Let the people of New York take this opportunity to demonstrate to the rest of the world their enduring faith in the American form of government, and the American way of life. Thank you, children. God bless you all. I think you can take you together. Heartれて be Ziemi, and years are lost lives in the world's culture, and may come to you students. One of the best practices of acontecendo espero is to be<|pa|> in your tradition of meeting, skills such as the installation of your votre akan Association to be composed of dei宜都, who will remember the virologian par comal of 혹시 pot by the prescriptive of the Pacific region environment. Thank you. Suitable死 It has been potentially proportional to their fermions in a major distribution, to the spring гол. Thank you. For every day, everything is important to do with creative work.