Mr. Quayle, Deputy Commissioner Moran, Deputy Commissioner Horowitz, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen and men of the fire department who have come here today to be honored and to be promoted. My first note, gentlemen, is to express your sorrow and mine for those who would have been honored here today if God in his wisdom permitted them to be here. One note of great sorrow for their passing, a message of sincere sympathy to their loved ones who were left behind. And in this, I am merely the voice of the people of the city in expressing that sympathy for the survivors. But joining with them in the pride that they must feel of the honor that they have brought to their families, brought to their departments, and brought to their city. To the gentlemen who are going to be honored, and to those who are going to be promoted, you are symbolic of the department that over the years has made a record, an incomparable record in public service. I am close to the ceremonies of today. I have known sorrow arising from the sacrifice of life within your department. I have known most of you over a number of years personally. And I add that personal note today of my sincere congratulations to both groups. And may the good Lord give you protection in the great work that you are doing. Thank you. In just a moment, Commissioner Frank J. Quayle of your fire department will be back at the microphone. He's just having a few words of conference with the mayor here in front of City Hall. The occasion is the awarding of medals to the members of the fire department. Commissioner Quayle. And now, as a special treat, here is my old buddy Staff Sergeant Bonnie McCabe to interview Tech Sergeant Bob Frendlish, Advanced Publicity Man for the United States Army Band of Washington, D.C. Staff Sergeant Bonnie McCabe. Thank you, Sergeant Crawford, and good morning. Yes, we have with us this morning, Tech Sergeant Bob Frendlish, the public relations man for the celebrated United States Army Band of Washington, D.C. Sergeant Frendlish is going to tell us something of his job, barnstorming with this fine musical group. The band, incidentally, is soon to make an open-air concert tour of Greater New York band shows. But more of that later. Uh, suppose you tell the people, Sergeant, about, well, this public relations man. It's a title, but, uh, doesn't it mean actually a sort of, uh, combination advance man and booking agent? And on some occasions, psychiatrist and even saint. I mean, the way I've seen you run around New York and Philadelphia and Washington, those places. Well, I, uh, I think you've got to justify right, Barney. You see, a public relations man must necessarily be sort of a queer character. He never has much time to stand still. And my combination, uh, advance man and booking agent, well, uh, that sort of began during the war when the United States Army Band hit England. And, well, we started out from England and went to England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and France, Belgium, Germany, so forth. But, you know, there's something you said about psychiatrist and saint. As far as being a saint is concerned, I'm afraid that's out of the book. I was talking about your enormous patience, Sergeant. I know that you, you bite your lips sometimes, but, uh, you manage to make it. Well, uh, biting lips and clenching your fingers and, well, that sort of, uh, I don't know just exactly what to call it. It's a bit nerve-wracking at times. It generally gives work to some of the finest psychiatrists that the Army has. Well, uh, I don't know, here's another point about your musicians. I'm not sure they'll appreciate the association, but, uh, I've heard it said that a performance at Carnegie Hall is a goal that, well, like vaudevillians used to seek at the Old Palace Theater, and they, uh, well, your boys sort of look forward to being in, uh, Carnegie Hall. Is it true? Have your boys made Carnegie Hall? Have they been there? Barney, you know, I'm, I'm very, very happy that you asked me that question. Because if you hadn't have asked me, I'm afraid you and I'd have had a few words later. Yes, my boys have made Carnegie Hall, as you very well know. I know it's in the script, and you read it that way. That's right. But if I'm not mistaken, you were at Carnegie Hall on February the 12th, when the United States Army Band did that concert. I left before the last number. You left before the last number. Had to go. Had to go write it. Well, I guess if you had to go, that part's all right. But on the next appearance of Carnegie Hall, and I hope it'll be driving the next appearance of the last number. Yes, sir, Sergeant. Yes, sir. I won't use my rank, but just don't leave. That's all. All right, Sergeant. You'll have to lock the door. But tell us, Sergeant, how long have you been with the United States Army Band of Washington, D.C.? Well, the United States Army Band hit England in 1944. They came through Sicily and Africa, and then after Africa, they came over to England. At that time, I was with Supreme Headquarters in England, and they said, well, Sergeant Friendlish, you've had a little bit of theatrical experience. We know that. I managed to fool them to that extent. And they said, the United States Army Band is here in England, and you're going to be the advanced man, public relation man, and general clean-up and utility man. Well, they weren't fooling. And you've been doing it ever since, and a very good job, I've heard tell. Well, I've done quite a bit. It's a good thing I'm practically ignorant of music, or they probably have me pulling a bass drum as well. Well, we understand your director is a young captain, contrary to the snowy-haired musical tradition. What's his name, Bob? And tell us something about him. Well, I'm going to tell you about Captain Hugh Curry, that's his name, and he's a good Boston Irishman. Fine. He's a terrific musician, and he's the youngest of the service band leaders, and Captain Curry and I at the overseas, Captain Curry was assistant leader, who he later succeeded Captain Thomas F. Darcy, and Captain Curry and I sort of gallivanted all over the European theater together in this past war. Well, that's good. I'm looking forward to meeting you, Captain. I've heard so much about his directing abilities. Well, he is. He's very, very talented. In fact, well, we haven't got much time now, and I'll tell you more about him, but he really is very, very fine. Not only a wonderful musician, but a grand guy. Well, that's fine, Sergeant. Now, before we turn the show back to Sergeant Crawford, how about some of the huckstering that justifies that handsome tech sergeant's paycheck? About the current concert schedule? Leave off that handsome stuff, Barney. This isn't television, I know, but leave that off. At any rate, the band is coming in from Philadelphia on the 20th, I hope, and they're going to arrive at Penn Station, and we're going to play Central Park on the 20th over at the mall, and when you people are in that neighborhood, I wish you'd drop in and hear it. I really think you're in for a treat. Then on the 21st, we go to the Prospect Park Music Grove. We're playing there at 8.30. Incidentally, the first concert will be about 2.30. Then we go to Poe Park in the Bronx. That's on June the 22nd, another 8.30 show. Then we go over to Staten Island at Clove Lake Park. And then Friday, we're not playing any parks, but we're doing several BBC recordings. Then on the 26th, we go back to Central Park for the Golden Jubilee Dedication Concert. And then on the 27th, we go to Jones Beach for a 2.30 show, and then back to the Capitol. Well, thank you very much, Sergeant Fremont. I'll be there for all of you.