You may have read or heard recently that New York University has embarked upon a long-range development program. Today I should like to take a few minutes to comment on our plans. But first, I should like to thank the management of WNYC for making it possible for me to talk to you. Last month, we at NYU announced the beginning of a 10-year program to improve and expand our educational and physical facilities. We set the sum of $102 million as our goal. Of this amount, we estimate that $52 million will go into the construction of buildings and $50 million will be added to the university's endowment. Now, we know that the total is large. It is probably the largest publicly announced development program in the history of privately supported higher education. But we believe our goal is both realistic and reasonable. There are two points concerning this program that I want to emphasize. First, I want to make it clear that our purpose is not to expand in size, not to grow bigger. It is rather to augment existing facilities and to improve our educational programs. These things we must do to meet the growing demands upon our educational and research services and to make sure that the university may contribute to the future even more fully than it has contributed to the past. A university, like any institution, or for that matter, any individual, should seek continually to improve itself. It should make careful continuing studies of its objectives, its methods, and its procedures. When these studies indicate that improvements can be made, then these improvements should be made. Then, too, a great university must be dynamic. It must stay in step with the newest developments in all of the fields in which it is interested, the sciences, the arts, the humanities, business, and technology. And it must keep flexible enough, physically and financially, to go on advancing. We have made a realistic survey of the needs of New York University, and we have arrived at what we believe is a reasonable sum of money to require to meet these needs. We could have gone higher, justifiably, than $102 million. But we decided to keep our goal a fairly conservative one, one that we believed would be attainable. Now, the second point I want to emphasize is this. Our current program is not a drive. It is not a short-term campaign for funds. It is a program that will take years. We have no illusions about the task we have set for ourselves. We know that it will require the work of all of us at NYU, day after day and month after month and year in and year out. I am sure that some questions have arisen in your mind, questions that have not been answered specifically in the newspaper accounts of our program, even though many of these accounts have been quite thorough. I think that I can answer many of your questions by telling you a little about New York University, about its history, its accomplishments, and the job it is doing today. NYU was founded 121 years ago, in 1831. At that time, there were only 25 universities and 34 colleges in the entire country. And most of these were universities and colleges in name only. They were aristocratic and highly selective, training young men for the ministry and largely ignoring almost all of the other professions and occupations. The founders of New York University, merchants, clergymen, physicians, bankers, lawyers, had different ideas about education and its responsibilities and its future. They believed, first of all, that higher education should reach every qualified man and woman in the nation, regardless of his background. They saw wisely that the democratic ideals, which were the heart and soul of this young republic, could be realized only by an enlightened citizenry. They were convinced that the rich material resources of America could be developed only if the human resources were developed first. Secondly, they believed that higher education should concern itself with all the fields of useful knowledge, that it should provide for the needs of merchants, manufacturers, mechanics, farmers, architects, and engineers, as well as those of doctors, lawyers, and theologians. They felt that the best place for a university of this type, for this new kind of a university, was here in New York. In the rapidly growing metropolis of the new world, here it could serve great multitudes of people. Here it could use the city itself as a laboratory, thus bringing together theory and practice in education, perhaps as they had never before been brought together. And here, finally, it could offer to the city and to the people many fine services beyond those of its formal educational programs. I want to be sure that you do not misinterpret what I have just said. Although it is true that one of the university's main distinctions lay in the emphasis it placed upon training in practical subjects, NYU was not at its founding, and it was never to become a group of vocational schools. The core of the institution was then, and is now, a strong liberal arts program. The idea of New York University, a unique idea at that time, was accepted in some circles with enthusiasm. But the university's early years were not wholly untroubled. Some of its founders disagreed and quarreled. Some gave up hope and then regained it. The administration had to meet and resolve frequent financial crises. But NYU moved ahead, because so many of its family believed in it and pledged their careers and their lives to its welfare. Two of the most distinguished members of its faculty in those first difficult years were Samuel F.B. Morris and John W. Draper. Within four years and a few feet of each other, in the university's first building at Washington Square, Morse gave the world the recording electric telegraph, and Draper developed modern photography. The names of these men are well known. But there were then, and there have been since, many eminent persons on the NYU faculty whose accomplishments in their own fields are comparable to those of Morse and Draper. New York University advanced and grew, sometimes slowly, sometimes at a more rapid pace. Eventually it established itself at six separate centers in New York City. I suspect that each of you is perhaps acquainted with at least one of them, but perhaps I should mention all six. There is the Washington Square Center with its eight undergraduate and graduate schools, colleges, and divisions. The University Heights Center in the Bronx with its University College of Arts and Science and its College of Engineering. The Graduate School of Business Administration in the Wall Street Financial District. The Institute of Fine Arts on East 80th Street near the Metropolitan Museum of Art. And the NYU Bellevue Medical Center off East River Drive between 26th and 34th Streets. And finally, the College of Dentistry on East 23rd Street. The past 40 years have been a period of tremendous growth and expansion of the university. Today, in terms of enrollment, NYU is the largest private university in the world. During the current semester, some 42,000 full-time and part-time students are attending its classes. But we do not regard the size of NYU as a virtue in itself. We are justifiably proud, however, of the quality and distinctiveness of our services. We do feel that its size indicates how well it has achieved one of the primary aims of its founders to make knowledge more accessible to anyone. We think it also indicates how much the nation and New York City need our university. NYU is non-sectarian, privately governed, and privately financed. It has a fine faculty. Its student body is unusually alert and serious and democratic. Its alumni are loyal and devoted. There are now approximately 115,000 living graduates of the university. And most of them reside in the New York metropolitan area. Our records show that almost half a million living persons have completed one or more courses at the university. Of the many attributes NYU has demonstrated over the years, I believe the most outstanding is its pioneer spirit. As I have indicated, it was a pioneer in its birth. It has been a pioneer through its long history, and it is a pioneer today. It established the first Department of Fine Arts, the first schools of retailing, education, and aeronautics, and the first modern law school. It has been a leader in the development of new curricula in many fields, liberal arts, the sciences, medicine, dentistry, nursing, business and finance, public administration, and adult education. It was one of the first universities to expend a great part of its energies and talents and facilities in direct service to the community and nation. As a pioneer university in a metropolitan area, and as one of the first to make use in its educational and research programs of the facilities of a large city, NYU set a pattern that has been followed by most urban universities. Above all, New York University is a great urban university. Although, as a privately financed and privately governed institution, it remains as independent of the city government as it does of the state and national government, it is essentially New York City's university. It is truly a private university in the public service. It is a private university and its tempo is that of the city itself. It goes to its job not in the quiet and cultivated loveliness of a small community, but in the bluntness and excitement of Manhattan and the Bronx. Here its faculty and its students work closely to the benefit of all with the city's professions and business and industries. Our present development program has one basic aim, to keep NYU a great university, to keep it serving the city and nation as richly and completely as the city and nation want and need to be served. Our opportunity for service is almost unlimited if the people we serve support our program and our effort. We are now seeking funds for new buildings and facilities at five of our six centers. And we are seeking endowment for the operation of all of our units at all six centers. The university's endowment is small, small for the size of the institution. In the past, the university has been able to get along with careful management, with efficiency and economy. But today, with the cost of everything a university uses to educate its students, just about twice as high as it was a decade ago, our endowment, even with the most careful management, is insufficient. Our program has already met with encouragement in the form of a major gift, a gift of one and a half million dollars from Frank J. Gould for the construction of a student center at the University Heights campus. We are deeply indebted to this devoted alumnus who has met one of our major needs. The job before us is a large one, but we are firm in our resolve to see it through as surely as those who founded the university led it through its first perilous years. We, like the founders, are serious about our task. We are conscious of our obligation and our opportunity. We are confident that many of you believe as we do in the importance of our undertaking. Thank you.