The Lord bless us and keep us. The Lord make his face to shine upon us and be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up his countenance upon us and give us peace both now and evermore. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Hey. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. The End The End The End The End Mr. President, We are gathered for the 109th commencement exercises of the City College. With your permission, sir, the ceremony will begin. The invocation will be delivered by the Reverend William Turner Levy. Let us pray. O God of peace, we come before thee in humility and penitence to seek those blessings which thou alone canst give. And as thou hast set before us the great hope that thy kingdom shall come on earth, and hast taught us to pray for its coming, make us ever ready to welcome the signs of its arrival, howsoever much they may offend our provincial righteousness, and to pray and work for that day of perfection when thy will shall be done on earth as it is in heaven. We who have received most know that we must be ready to give most. For it is thy word that to whom much is given, of them shall much be required. give us in addition, therefore, boldness to attempt great things in thy name, and patient faithfulness to bear the daily tasks of indispensable duty. And since without thee we are not able to please thee, instill in us the recognition that those who put their faith in worldly order, not controlled by the order of God, degrade what they exalt. Also, O Lord, we come before thee in gratitude to thank thee for this nation, this state, this city, and we ask that thou wilt grant to the President of the United States, to the Governor of this Commonwealth, to the Mayor of this city, and to all in authority, wisdom and strength to know and to do thy will. Fill them and us with grace fearlessly to contend against evil and to make no peace with oppression, and that we may reverently use our freedom, help us to employ it in the maintenance of justice among men and nations. We would thank thee for this great college and beg thy blessing upon its President and administrators and alumni and upon those who teach and those who learn, well knowing that only in thy fear can there be brought within the reach of all that knowledge which is at once the source of power and the guarantee that such power shall be beneficent. Finally, we come before thee in a spirit of dedication. Like thy prophets, we say, send us, send us forth to teach and to save. Fix thou our steps, O Lord, that we stagger not at the uneven motions of this world, but eager to bind up its wounds, extend to a suffering humanity the rich harvest of a power purged of pretension and a love informed in humility which alone can make America acceptable in thy sight. upon such a work to which the conscience of each of us pleads to be called, we are bold to invoke the blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Amen. Gü Slack Sinceychelles in the non- football Czyli The Lord out in the courts where园 Little known to the members of the college family intimate, are the 21 persons comprising the Board of Higher Education of the City of New York. Their continuous, in-season and out-of-season, arduous labors are seldom recognized. Their salaries are zero. Their application to their duties frequently costs them a great deal, both in money and in time and life. And, representing the Board of Higher Education tonight, the chairman thereof will deliver greetings to the graduating class, Dr. Joseph B. Cavalero. Thank you. A highlight of tonight's ceremony is the conferring of an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws on Jonas E. Salk, the man whose research led to the development of a polio vaccine, and who incidentally is a graduate of the City College, class of 1934. Here now is the Honorable Joseph B. Cavalero, chairman of the Board of Higher Education of the City of New York. President Gallagher, Your Excellency Governor Harriman, Deputy Mayor Epstein, Reverend Clergy, My colleagues on the Board, distinguished guests, members of the graduating class, parents, friends, and above all, our honored guest, Dr. Salk. This is a very special occasion. Applause This is a very special occasion in the life of City College. We are gathered here in recognition of the achievements of those who have completed their course of study and to pay tribute to a distinguished graduate. Dr. Salk's achievement evokes in all of us, and in millions of others not present, the deepest feeling of gratitude and thankfulness. That he is a native of this great city and a product of its schools is a source of great pride. City College has amply justified the vision of those who founded it 108 years ago, located in a great and growing metropolis, serving a population drawn from nearly every part of the globe, representing different races and different creeds. It has become a landmark of free public education, a noble experiment, if you will, in the democratic way of life. Its contributions to the city, the state, and to the nation are known to all of us. Among its graduates, it numbers such outstanding Americans as the beloved Bernard Baruch, David Steinman, Gaynor Dunn, the late Senator Robert F. Wagner, and many others, including our distinguished guest, Dr. Jonas E. Salk. The College of the City of New York is indeed one of the leading institutions of higher learning in this country. Together with its sister colleges, Hunter, Brooklyn, and Queens, it forms the apex of one of the world's largest systems of free public higher education. We who live in this great city appreciate the value of our municipal colleges, their reputation in the academic world, their high scholastic standards, the excellence of their students and faculties. In them we have tangible proof that public higher education for those who cannot afford to attend private colleges and universities is a wise investment. I would like to take this opportunity to commend Governor Harriman for his efforts to help preserve this investment by providing well-merited increases in the salaries of the teachers of the City of New York, including the faculties of our municipal colleges. And may I also express my appreciation for the splendid cooperation of that Ambassador of Goodwill, Mayor Wagner, our Deputy Mayor, who is with us this evening, and the members of the Board of Estimate in promoting public higher education in this great city. It is my privilege as Chairman of the Board of Higher Education to extend congratulations to the members of the graduating class. It is my personal hope that you will find success in your life work and that you will always be loyal supporters of your alma mater. and to you, Dr. Sork, may I say on behalf of the Board that you have proved a worthy son of this institution, an honor to your city, state and country, and a benefactor of mankind. Perhaps you will forgive me if I will quote from the 208-foot telegram sent you. Freedom of fear from future polio ravages cheers and heartens our families. These words express the sentiments of the American people. I trust that those who have been awarded the Dr. Jonas E. Sork scholarships will be inspired by the great work that you have done. The City of New York is to be congratulated for extending aid in order to prepare the Sorks of the future. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The principal address of the evening is to be delivered by the Honorable W. Averill Harriman, Governor of the State of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Members of the Board of Higher Education, members of the faculty, alumni, undergraduates, members of the Class of 1955, your honored guests, families, and friends. To be invited tonight to address the Class of 1955 as you gather together this last time before going your separate ways, each in search of life's fulfillment is a high compliment and one for which I am grateful. And to be present on this memorable occasion when the College of the City of New York pays tribute to one of its own, a great benefactor of mankind, is honor indeed. As the years pass, few of you will remember that the Governor of the State of New York spoke tonight, but few of you will not remember that Jonas Edward Salk was here. The brilliance of Dr. Salk's achievements is matched by his humility and modesty and by his resistance. As crude hands have laid hold of the work he has with loving patience wrought, I find it hard to disassociate his scientific achievement from the humility and modesty and restraint that attends it. It is all the part of a single pattern of true greatness, and as you go forth into the world, I commend it to you whole. If this graduating class had not been born in the Depression, had not lived through the Second World War, witnessed the dawn of the Atomic Age, and spent its thinking years amid the fierceness and dangers of a long Cold War, I would hardly say to you that you emerge upon the stage of adulthood in a moment of calm. But to you of the class of 1955, who have known only National and World Tempest, I can say it without fear of being misunderstood. Nationally, we are enjoying prosperity. Internationally, the Soviet Union has for the time being abandoned the cruder forms of direct expansionist pressure, and is engaged in sweeping diplomatic and propaganda maneuvers, which, while perhaps more dangerous tomorrow, at least turn down the heat today. It is a relative calm, to be sure, that prevails this month of June of 1955, an uneasy calm, but the winds are at least changing direction, and we have time to take fresh bearings. Then why, one might say, don't we just make money and make merry for a while? I earnestly hope you will make both in reasonable measure. But I earnestly hope you will make certain to build and maintain in the years ahead the conditions at home and abroad in which it will be possible. For they will not just grow automatically, I would recall to you that ten years after the close of World War I, it was 1928, a year of outstanding money-making and merry-making and endless problems, and then the House of Prosperity and Security built on sand collapsed, at first at home and then partially as a result of that collapse at home abroad. today, ten years after World War II, we are far better equipped, it seems to me, to cope with national and world problems than we were then. But the problems themselves have grown larger and more complex, and the danger of not solving them approaches the absolute. Yours, in many ways, is a most fortunate generation of Americans. Americans. Your inheritance is rich beyond compare. The glorious idea and institutions of freedom are handed you unimpaired. They are an inspiration to the people of many less fortunate lands. Yet they are today challenged by communism, but the challenge only makes us realize their incomparable and enduring value. another part of your inheritance is the productive capacity of this country. Our capacity produced is already fantastic, but science is each day discovering new resources for the satisfaction of men's needs, and technology is each day finding new ways to increase production, while reducing human drudgery in the factories, in the homes, and on the farms. and we stand only upon the threshold of the application of atomic knowledge to man's needs. Another part of your inheritance is the body of experience we have gained, a great deal of it within the last 25 years, of how to make these great resources and this productive plant of ours better serve more people more of the time. 25 years ago, many people thought our national economy was beyond control, and that it was not only dangerous but immoral to try to intervene to correct the vagaries of the market. Since then, we have learned that the continuous growth of the national economy is necessary to the well-building of all of us, and that if economic growth does not occur automatically from the transactions of the market, it must and can be stimulated. 25 years ago, many people thought widespread poverty was a natural and inevitable condition of our society, arising mainly from the shiftlessness of the poor to be dealt with through charity. Since then, we have learned that this is not so, that poverty arises largely from causes beyond the control of its victims, and that these causes can be dealt with, and that to do so is not only humanitarian but good economics. likewise we have learned, and it has been brought home to us dramatically in recent weeks, that the great discovery of Dr. Salk, by his great discovery, that a great deal of physical, mental, and social illness that throughout the history of man has shadowed and plagued his life, can be prevented or cured or relieved, and we have at hand many of the tools and attitudes for doing so on a broad and systematic basis. Do not undervalue this part of your inheritance. The knowledge and experience I have been describing has been gained with great effort and at great cost. It has as yet been applied only partially and imperfectly, but it is an asset of enormous value, and it will be up to you to multiply it. Now let me continue the inventory. You may think you have inherited the most dangerous world situation ever to confront civilized man with national security, freedom, and human survival itself in danger. You may be right. But I would point out to you that you have also inherited some extraordinary tools which your predecessors never had for parrying that danger. This nation, with its glorious tradition of freedom, with its incomparable power, is now equipped through agreement among the people of our country, which has been reached only in the last 15 years, to use its great influence and resources to build throughout the world the conditions of peace and freedom and orderly progress. An older generation has had to struggle and suffer desperately and pay for that agreement, and it is now yours. Today, the people of the free world are looking to us for leadership. If we have the wisdom and the purpose to use that position properly, it can be an instrument of untold value. We are also now endowed with powerful alliances and with accepted policies for maintaining our own strength and for helping to build up the military, economic, social, political strength of other free nations, which thus far have been, though not completely successful, but remarkably successful in strengthening free nations to resist and throw back communist aggression and expansion. I think we have charted a course in world affairs in the last ten years that can, with adaptation and extension, carry on with perseverance and sacrifice and lead us safely through the dangers ahead. The charts are part of your inheritance. It is true that ghastly weapons of destruction hang over the scene, and a madman might, of course, let them fall. But it is possible, and I for one believe likely, that if we maintain our capacity for swift and powerful retaliation until such time as it may be possible to reach agreement upon a foolproof scheme for arms control, the awful consequences of atomic warfare may be a genuine and lasting deterrent. This, then, is your inheritance. The question is, what is going to be done with it? Great torrents of human aspiration and physical change are sweeping this world. Science and technology are pouring potential good and opportunity upon us in a great cascade. But there are also heaping upon us new economic and social and political problems that urgently and continually demand attention and action. Automation, atomic energy, can be great boons or catastrophes depending upon how we control them. Our rapidly increasing population can be a source of great new strength for our nation. But if we do not keep pace with economic and social adjustment, we can become merely overgrown, lacking in vitality, decadent. I firmly believe that we have it within our power to use scientific and technological development and our accumulated knowledge to increase steadily the prosperity and happiness and fulfillment of the people of this nation and to help the world build the essential conditions of a good life and a lasting peace. The opportunities before us are as fantastic as is our capacity to realize them. And we have no acceptable alternative to thinking the big thoughts and carrying on the great projects necessary for their realization. For if we do not, uncontrolled, undirected, change will overwhelm us. Now let's look at some of the opportunities. There is no longer any excuse for poverty in this country. And yet I would remind you that one out of every seven families in our country lives on less than $1,500 a year. At the lower end of the scale, the conditions of poverty are shocking. And there are millions more who, though not living in poverty, are not able to enjoy what is considered an American standard of living. Here is an exciting opportunity on a wide front to help increase the productivity and the income of a large segment of our population and provide outlets for our great productive capacity and thus at the same time increase the strength and well-being of our nation as a whole. Consider the wonderful opportunity of applying the great achievements of medical science systematically to the prevention, alleviation, and cure of illness in this country. With the wealth of our country, certainly we can find ways by which medical services can be made available to all who need them and without crippling cost to anyone. It is a sad reflection that the amazing achievements of medical science and psychiatry should not be better applied to the prevention of physical and mental illness. It is a defiance of common sense that we should spend so little each year on research into the causes and cure of the great baffling diseases that still stalk among us and the causes and cure for mental illness. There are other national problems that urgently need attention and there are also great opportunities if we look at them in that light. Too many of our families in this country live in wretched homes and this is one of the causes of social and physical disease. Juvenile delinquency is one of them. Science has furnished us with magnificent instruments of communication, notably television, and yet we have yet to use them adequately for education and cultural improvement. And yet we watch the Soviets use them on an international field and we are fearful to make use of our own knowledge. We have the tools, my friends, we have the resources to solve these and other such problems. We need only to dedicate ourselves to their solution. But our problems and our opportunities are by no means all found at home. They are as wide as the world itself. Throughout our history it has been the idea of freedom and orderly progress through democratic processes that have stirred the hearts and hopes of the impoverished and inspiring peoples throughout the world. It has been the great revolutionary idea and America has been its foremost apostle and its most splendid example. But in our generation communism advocating the violent sweeping overthrow of established order claims to be the only true religion of change and progress. We are thus engaged in a global struggle in which those things we hold most dear are at stake. Freedom and democracy have been challenged before and as history proves they are tough and resilient. But because of the power of the Soviet Union, the methods it employs to propagandize, to impose its doctrine, and especially because of the unprecedented, seething urge of the world's underprivileged peoples for rapid change, freedom and democracy are being tested in new arenas and in new ways. In Asia and other underdeveloped areas of the world, human need is so vast it must be measured on a scale different from ours and our capacity to assist is for many reasons limited. But there is no good reason other than failure to apply the skills and resources and knowledge that are available. Why more than half of the people of the world should live in hunger and degradation and hopelessness and die squalid and untimely deaths from the most easily preventable communicable diseases. Moreover, these people are beginning to realize it. A great awakening is taking place. Massive, explosive urges are building up for an improvement in their conditions of life. And unless these urges are given outlet in rising standards of living, greater dignity, and hope for the future, freedom cannot prevail. There cannot be political freedom apart from economic opportunity. It was our own great president, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, who first electrified the people of the world. He first electrified the people of the world by nailing these words, freedom from want everywhere in the world to the masthead of American policy, realizing, as he did so well, that it was an essential to world peace. We have it in our power through providing technical assistance, needed capital and inspiration, to help the underdeveloped countries get started along the roads towards the solution of their many ills. And it is absolutely necessary that we do so, for it is not only their poverty that can drag down world poverty, including our own, but the future of freedom in the world, including our own freedom, may well be decided in those countries. The great philosopher-historian Arnold Toynbee wrote several years ago, Our age will be remembered chiefly for its having been the first since the dawn of civilization in which people dared to think it practical to make the benefits of civilization available for the whole human race. This sudden new idea was born, he pointed out, because, and these are his words, sudden, vast enhancement of man's ability to make non-human nature produce what man requires from her, has made the idea of welfare for all a practical objective. In conclusion, this is the idea I would have you remember as you leave this place. It is a thrilling idea, and nothing less than full and confident dedication to it can build conditions in which the world can find peace, and in which I venture to suggest to you, can you find your own fulfillment. Tonight I congratulate you on your achievement marked by these ceremonies, and I bid you Godspeed on life's journey. WNYC has brought you a special broadcast of the City College commencement exercises. Governor Averill Harriman delivered the commencement address, and an honorary degree was conferred on a distinguished alumnus of the City College, Dr. Jonas E. Salk. This has been a transcribed public service feature of your city station. Dr. Gallagher, most distinguished guests, members of the faculty, alumni, friends, and classmates. Almost every student, I suppose, feels that the college from which he is being graduated is superior to all other colleges. And we, who are about to be graduated from City College, are, understandably, proud of our school because of the education it has given to us, and because of the thorough manner in which it has prepared us for our chosen professions and for life itself. There is something, however, that sets City College apart from other schools, and that is that it provides free public higher education, and without regard to race, creed, or color. Seated before you, among those about to be graduated, are teachers and engineers. No longer the teachers and engineers of tomorrow, but the teachers, the engineers of today, who would not be teachers or engineers if there were no City College. This is what our college means to us. And all that City College asks in return from us to whom she has given so much is that we assume a useful place in society. That we may return to our city, to our state, to our nation, and to the world that which we have gained from the education given us. However, however, we now wish to show our appreciation to the college, to the faculty, to the administration, to the alumni, in some concrete manner. The class of 1955 of the Uptown Center has accordingly purchased, with a modest amount, $250, an endowment policy payable to the City College Fund 25 years from now. We intend this policy to be the first installment of a $25,000 gift to be presented to the college at the time of our 25th anniversary. Which money will be contributed by the members of our class during the years ahead. We hope in this manner to show our gratitude to City College and to transmit it greater, better, and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us, to those students who are to follow us. Thank you. Secondly, I wish to recognize Mr. Robert Irwin Silberberg, President of the Class of 1955 Downtown. Mr. President, honored guests, members of the faculty, members of the Class of 1955, friends. For the 774 graduates of the class of 1955 of the Baruch School, the past four years have been an unforgettable experience in group living and cooperative action. As our way of saying thank you to the College and the members of the faculty for the fine education we have received, we would like to present to the school a check for $300. It is our intention that this check be used for a worthy project at the Baruch School. Consistent with the philosophy which is prevalent at the Baruch School of joint faculty-student participation in decision-making, we intend the final decision as to the disposition of funds be made by a committee composed of representatives of the Class of 1955 and of the faculty of the Baruch School. We hope that this gift will be the first of many presentations made by our class to the College. Therefore, on behalf of the graduating class of the Bernard M. Baruch School of Business and Public Administration, it is my pleasure to present to you, Mr. President, this gift as a token of our esteem for our alma mater. The significance of these two gifts is far beyond their immediate amount. As one looks into the years ahead, one knows very well that the future of this great public college depends primarily upon the degree to which those who have studied and learned here express tangibly and openly and increasingly with greater effectiveness their continuing affection and loyalty. The administration of the Ephibic Oath this year is to be done by the President-elect of the Alumni Association, a man whose association with this college, man and boy, extends about as long as that of anybody around the place, Dean Morton Gottschall. It is a real and rare privilege to be asked to administer this oath. More than 40 years ago, my own graduating class was, I believe, the first to give this oath of civic devotion. And throughout the years that I have been associated with the City College, it has been a symbol and a challenge. If I say goodbye to you as students, I'm welcoming you as alumni. And I hope that you will continue to participate in the affairs of the college as active members of the Alumni Association. Now, will the graduates please stand and repeat the words of the Ephibic Oath after me. We, men and women, graduated by the College of the City of New York in 1955. Do this day, after the manner of the Athenian youths of old, about to enter public life, take this oath of devotion to the City of New York. We will never bring disgrace to our city by any act of dishonesty or cowardice. Nor ever desert our suffering comrades in the ranks. We will never bring disgrace to our hearts. We will fight for the ideals and sacred things of the city, both alone and with many. We will revere and obey the city's laws. And do our best to incite a like respect and reverence in those about us who are prone to annul them and set them at naught. And do our best to incite a like respect and reverence in those about us who are prone to annul them and set them at naught. We will strive unceasingly to quicken the public sense of civic duty. We will strive unceasingly to quicken the public sense of civic duty. And thus, in all these ways, we will strive to transmit this city not only, not less, but greater, better, and more beautiful than it was transmitted to us. Graduates, be seated. Thank you. Candidates for the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science will be presented by Dean Morton Gottschall of the College of Liberal Arts and Science. Candidates for these degrees please rise. Thank you. Mr. President, these 787 candidates have completed all requirements for the baccalaureate degree. 493 for the degree Bachelor of Arts and 294 for the degree Bachelor of Science. They have been duly recommended, therefore, by the Faculty Council of the College of Liberal Arts and Science, and I respectfully request you to confer their degrees upon them. Candidates for the degrees of Chemical Engineering, Bachelor of Civil Engineering, Bachelor of Electrical Engineering, Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering, will be presented by Dean William Allen of the School of Technology. Candidates for these degrees please rise. Mr. President, I have the honor to present 328 candidates for bachelor's degrees in engineering. They have completed all of the requirements for the degrees and have been recommended for them by the faculty of the School of Technology. Of this number, 38 are in Chemical Engineering, 63 in Civil Engineering, 124 in Electrical, and 103 in Mechanical Engineering. I respectfully request you to confer the degrees upon them. Candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Business Administration will be presented by Dean Thomas L. Norton of the Baruch School of Business and Public Administration. Candidates for this degree please rise. Mr. President, I have the honor to present 774 candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Business Administration. These young men and women have fulfilled all the requirements for that degree and are recommended to you for it by the faculty of the Bernard M. Baruch School of Business and Public Administration. I respectfully request you to confer the degree upon them. Candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Education will be presented by Dean Harold H. Abelson of the School of Education. Candidates for this degree please rise. Mr. President, these 239 candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Education have completed all the requirements for that degree and have been recommended for it by the faculty of the School of Education. Candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Education. Candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Science in Education I respectfully request you to confer the degree upon them. By authority of the State of New York, by charter vested in the College of the City of New York, and by the Board of Higher Education delegated to me, I hereby confer upon each of you individually and severally the degree for which you have been recommended with all of its rights, privileges, and obligations. Candidates, please be seated. Congratulations. Congratulations. Candidates for the degree of Master of Arts will be presented by Dean Morton Gottschall of the College of Liberal Arts and Science. Candidates for this degree, please rise. President, seven candidates have completed all requirements for the degree Master of Arts and have been duly recommended, therefore, by the Faculty Council of the College of Liberal Arts and Science. I respectfully request you to confer their degrees upon them. Candidates for the degree of Master of Civil Engineering, Master of Electrical Engineering, and Master of Mechanical Engineering will be presented by Dean William Allen of the School of Technology. candidates for these degrees, please rise. Mr. President, I have the honor to present 43 candidates for Master's degrees in Engineering. They have completed all of the requirements for the degrees and have been recommended for them by the Faculty of the School of Technology. There are five in Civil Engineering, 24 in Electrical Engineering, and 14 in Mechanical Engineering. I respectfully request you to confer the degrees upon them. Candidates for the degree of Master of Business Administration will be presented by Dean Thomas L. Norton of the Baruch School of Business and Public Administration. Candidates for this degree, please rise. Mr. President, I have the honor to present 62 candidates for the degree of Master of Business Administration and eight candidates for the degree of Master of Public Administration. They have fulfilled all the requirements for these degrees and have been recommended to you for them by the Faculty of the Bernard M. Baruch School of Business and Public Administration. I respectfully request you to confer the degree upon them. Candidates for the degree of Master of Arts and Master of Science in Education will be presented by Dean Harold H. Abelson of the School of Education. Candidates for these degrees, please rise. Mr. President, Mr. President, these 195 candidates for the degree of Master of Arts and Master of Science in Education have completed all the requirements for their respective degrees and have been recommended for them by the Faculty of the School of Education. Of these candidates, nine have completed as well the requirements for the certificate in Clinical School Psychology. I respectfully request you to confer the appropriate degree and or certificate upon them. by authority of the State of New York, by charter vested in the College of the City of New York, and by vote of the Board of Higher Education vested in me, I hereby confer upon each of you individually and severally the degree for which you have been recommended with all of its rights, privileges, and opportunities in token whereof you are now invested with a hood. Well, thank you. Thanks so much for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President, Jonas Edward Salk of the class of 1934 is presented for the honorary degree of Doctor of Lords. The world knows the work of Jonas Salk. In an age when war has multiplied the fearful instruments of death, this scientist of life has labored in the arsenal of peace. In its laboratories, he has forged a weapon to help man conquer a dreaded disease. Born in New York City, trained in its public schools, a graduate of the City College and of the New York University College of Medicine, Jonas Salk well represents all those earnest students who so richly repay their city and nation for the faith the people have in free higher education. He later studied, then taught, at the School of Public Health of the University of Michigan, and is now Research Professor of Bacteriology at the University of Pittsburgh. There, he developed the vaccine that bears his name and carries his faith around the earth and into the ages. Therefore, I deem it a very great honor to have the privilege on behalf of the Board of Higher Education of the City of New York to present this distinguished graduate of City College for the honorary degree of Doctor of Lords, the ninth such degree granted by this college in this century. The second patrons are honored, honey, just hold awards. This єan wi-je programme exhales. So hold it just a minute, hold it just a moment, gentlemen. Thank you. In this award to you, Jonas Salk, Alma Mater breaks precedent. just once before, and then only in the exhilaration of its hundredth birthday, did it present honorary degrees to any of its great alumni. May the rarity of this tribute indicate the affection and pride the college feels toward a distinguished son. You have exemplified in your own life the qualities of thoroughness, sustained effort, and devotion to the public good, and which are the ideals of City College. You have rewarded the hopes of your parents, and of all parents whose sacrifices have enlarged the opportunities of their children. You have justified the faith of the taxpayers whose annually recurring expressions of confidence place each graduate of this college under a peculiar trust. The college takes pride in the many alumni who for over a hundred years have achieved distinction in every honorable field of human endeavor, and through their works have benefited mankind. In you, City College takes particular pride. By virtue of the authority vested in me, and by special vote of the Board of Regents of the State of New York, I confer upon you, Jonas Edward Salk, the degree of Doctor of Laws Honoris Causa, with all the rights, privileges, and immunities appertaining thereto. Thank you. He is not only a son of City College, he is a son of New York City, and it is fitting, therefore, that the City of New York should have a part in this celebration. Representing his honor, Mayor Wagner, present tonight is Deputy Mayor Henry Epstein. Thank you. It was written centuries ago, blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. you, Dr. Jonas Salk, have already won the inheritance of all the peoples of the earth and their deep obligation, which shall remain with them, their children and their children's children through all the centuries to come. You also know the meaning of those words of a poet written more than a century ago. Wer nicht sein Brot mit Tränen aß, wer nicht die kummervollen Nächte auf seinem Bett erweinend saß, der kennt euch nicht, ihr himmlischen Mächte. The powers of the heavens, Dr. Salk, have been visited upon the peoples of the earth through you. You have brought honor to the city of New York, and the city of New York, through this college, is pleased to do you this honor in presenting you the medal. Also, which reads, on its face, Dr. Jonas Edward Salk, benefactor of mankind. And on its edge, to Dr. Jonas E. Salk, in recognition of vaccination against paralytic poliomyelitis. I am pleased, on behalf of the mayor of the city, and through the courtesy of the president of this college, to present you with this, its medal. I remember some 21 years ago, I was sitting amongst you, and as Governor Harriman said in his wise words, you probably will not remember who addressed you some years hence. I do not. But as I sat here this evening, I tried to recapture the thoughts that were with me then. And I remember the warm and scintillating feeling inside, because the moment the degree was granted, I felt that I was going to go on and do other things that I wanted to do. But it's terribly important to realize that none of this would have been possible, were it not, for all of the things that we've heard about this evening. We sometimes take for granted the little things in life, and then when we take the big things in life for granted, tragedy may ensue. I recall so clearly how much it meant to me to have had the opportunity to go on. But I suppose in the early years, one took for granted the opportunities of childhood, and then the opportunities that followed therefrom. It is very heartening to be here this evening. And I must say that my heart goes out to all of you for this very warm reception, and particularly do I want to convey once again to all who made the opportunities that were at my disposal possible. Not only my alma mater, my parents, and all those who stood behind all, who created the opportunities that I had and that you too will have. And again, for all these things, I am indeed grateful. Thank you. Thank you. I wish now to introduce an item not printed in the program, and to present for a very special occasion, His Excellency, Dr. Pierre Donzalon, former Commissioner for Higher Education in France, former Director General of the Ministry of National Education, and presently permanent representative of the French universities in the United States. Dr. Donzalon. Mr. President, Mr. Governor, ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege to carry out an extremely pleasant mission given me by the French government, that of presenting to Dr. Jonas, he sought the expression of France's deep appreciation and sincere gratitude for the outstanding contribution which he has recently made to the cause of the health and happiness of all mankind. I wish to thank President Gallagher for the opportunity of doing it in this college, which was your alma mater, before such a numerous assembly and so many honored guests. Let me then, on behalf of France, tell about some of your merits, a broad knowledge of microbiology and chiefly of viruses, of pathology and physiology, exactness and precision in diagnosis, audacity and wisdom not alternating but hand in hand, cool-headedness and clear and meticulous conception of what must be done, vigilant and forceful control of a series of experiments. And I should like to add the clarity of your papers, which I have read, and in which I admire your authority, intelligence and your ability to inspire and persuade. Thank you, Mr. Stuane. We also appreciate in you the taste for research and progress, the patience of observation and experimentation, the flashes of invention and the impeccable form of the scientific mind. We know that you have also shown detachment, distinction and nobility, and that you never allowed yourself to be abased by material considerations. Because your mind was free and fearless, because your passion for exactness was for you the basic condition of science, you belong to that race of science, you belong to that race of unusual men who, in our fierce modern societies, have kept as their essential aim the conquest of the suffering and death. The whole world's gratitude goes out to you, and officially, in the name of France, I stand here as a witness to it. I am much more happy to bring it to you in this great college of which you are an alumnus. A great college, a great college, a great college, a great college which is profoundly liberal and democratic, and whose influence and reputation extend beyond the frontiers of the United States, and are felt on the other side of the ocean, in that Europe from which I come. And it will be one of my proudest memories to have presented you, in the name of the French government, with the cross of Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur. This decoration, which is the pride of Frenchmen, was created by Napoleon to reward the merits of those who have rendered high service to their mother country or to humanity. You have added to the prestige of your America, and you have rendered mankind one of the most outstanding services that it has known in many years. The nation of Pasteur today tenders you its homage, and that's why, au nom du Président de la République Française.完成. genom謝 aley pointedėzỹharna. And we are vilify the texto, which we would like to see now for a close line. We come now to the final moments of the evening, an evening that has been notable by the presence of each person here. I cannot conclude this gathering without one word to those who are primarily responsible for the achievement of those who have here received degrees. And I should like, therefore, to begin with Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Salk in the front row. And then I should like to have stand all of the parents of all of this year's graduating class. Applause And there is another group which I think at least deserves some degree of appreciation tonight. I mean the faculty. Applause And last but not least, everybody who pays taxes in the state of New York and the city of New York. Applause Following the singing of Lavender, we will remain standing for the benediction, and the audience is requested to remain in its place until the platform party has left the stadium. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.aze The End The End The End The End
