On the most historic spot in the world, the plaza in front of City Hall, a great American will receive the honors of the City of New York, Connie Mack, who is going into his 50th year as the genius of baseball in his leading of the Philadelphia Athletics. And certainly when he gets to New York, he'll discover the fact that New York hasn't severed ties with Philadelphia in the welcome that has turned out here. It's very interesting to see the tremendous crowd that has turned out here at City Hall today because there's no question about it, as far as the eye can reach down Broadway, there's tremendous masses of people. And Connie Mack is certainly going to have a hero's holiday here in New York today as he comes up the Grand Canyon and that usual shower of ticker tape, confetti, and all the other tributes that we give to a hero and someone who has accomplished something in the scheme of things in this great and wonderful interesting world of ours. And it's gradually and surely and finally going to emerge as one of the most interesting things in the world, one of the most interesting worlds, I'll say. And sports, no doubt, and the quality of sportsmanship is going to make it that exactly. Because as soon as the situations that seem so difficult at this time take a leaf out of the album of the sportsman and realize that you have to give the other fella a chance to win fairly, then there'll be no such thing as chicanery or any other factors that seem to complicate less experienced people at this time. And for that reason, we depend very heavily on sports to keep up that inspirational quality. That is merkwing as well. Well, feel free that you think we're critical to geçer it in kind of a shiftagh and the � of the most significant выступint. Too many that matter in this place difficult, so become more experienced than an заключemary and more than medical completeness. So yes, Art Law, Michael Goodwin, I think we left Georgia in B taylor. And he's back in Sacramento. And why didn't we get a lead of pressure in this state? So let's say a over the United States and indeed all over the world to realize that the gentleman being honored here today not only represents baseball, but he represents a whole era of American life. It's interesting to note that in East Brookfield, Massachusetts, the date was December 22nd, 1862, when Connie Mack was born. He worked pretty hard in those days. I guess all youngsters did, as you remember. When he was nine years old, he was working 12 hours a day in a cotton mill, but he still found time to play ball after work whenever possible on weekends. He found he was pretty good at it, too. He joined the Meriden, Connecticut Club as a catcher when he was 22 years old, his first professional baseball. Baseball, as we know it today, is not exactly similar to what was going on at that time. We didn't have the equipment then that we have now. You found often that the catchers came out unequipped with the modern-day catcher's masks. The ball was a good deal slower. It was more of a pitcher's game then, they'll tell you now, than it is in these days. He got $90 a month when he went to Hartford, and then later on he went to Washington, which then, by the way, was in the National League. Sounds peculiar to think of Washington in the National League today, but that's the way it was. He was still a catcher then. He's a tall, gangly fellow, and his first pitching partner was also tall. They were known as the Bones Battery, Pittsburgh, and the first Major League game that Connie Mack took part in took place on September 11, 1886. Then he went on to Buffalo. Of course, Buffalo today isn't in the Major Leagues, but it was at that time. He became manager of Pittsburgh in 1894, and it's another thing for us to stand here today and think about a man who has been managing, not just playing baseball, but has been managing a baseball team longer than, I guess we could say, most men in this country have been alive. So he represents the whole era of America in this baseball-minded country. Baseball does represent something to Americans, too, as you can readily tell by the thousands of people who've gathered out in front of City Hall here this afternoon to honor Connie Mack. Well, we'll just tell you one thing more about him as we see the parade heading up now, the very, very colorful parade, all the color and splendor that goes with it that are his due today, since this is Connie Mack Day. He won nine pennants for the A's, which is more than anybody else ever won after he had joined the athletics manager. McGraw, the Giants, won 10, and Connie Mack is still working, still in 1949. After all these years, he's still working for that 10th pennant to match up with John McGraw, and who knows? He may possibly do it. Now, to get the full color and the full pageantry that's going on here in front of City Hall, we're going to turn you back to Tommy Cowan. And Tommy, I wish you'd tell us all about this. Oh, I think you could do that, too, John. Why WNYC is compelled to feed the networks on this pageant here in front of City Hall today, and standing right beside me is Joe Besch, director of promotional activities of WINS. And what's your impression? Where's Joe? Here I am, Tommy. It's really a wonderful day, and WINS is very happy that WNYC has cooperated so well that we may bring our own audience to this wonderful show. He's a grand old man, and we all love him. Thank you. There's no greater thing in the world than sports, isn't it, Joe? And when we get an opportunity here in New York City that loves to acknowledge accomplishment in any form, and especially in the matter of baseball, which is so dear to the hearts of all of us, why I'm telling you that Connie Mack, I think, is going to desert Philadelphia for New York, if it's any indication of the warm-heartedness and the tremendous reception which he's receiving here in New York today, it's quite unbelievable that so many people could be here today. And I'm really not exaggerating. We look over across City Hall Park, and there's deep crowds down into Park Place, Murray Street, Warren Street, Beesey, Barkley. We can see clear to the porch of St. Paul's Church, and there's just masses and masses of people here. And there's no doubt in the world, but what baseball is very near and dear to the hearts of every American. And to see these kids here in their colored caps, the Sandlot kids, the PAL representatives, and all the other elements that enter into this participation in the tribute to Connie Mack, why he's certainly going to realize that it's a wonderful thing to have an idea, to stick to the idea, and carry it through as successfully as he has in managing particularly the Philadelphia Athletics. And the Genius Party has played entirely in the comprehensive picture of baseball. And there goes our flag, our great stars and stripes, the flag of the police department, the flag of the city of New York, and the police department band. Would you like to hear a few notes of that now as they come into the plaza here? It's a perfect Grover Whelan day for one of these receptions. Magnificent sunlight, enough air to make it pleasant, and not too warm. It just makes you think of Indian summer later on in October. That's the kind of a day it is here in New York. And there's those PAL people there in those green outfits, the PAL written across it, another indication of how sports resolve a situation that we used to think was difficult. The youngster used to think the policeman was a guinom. Shall we use that terminology? And then the PAL was inaugurated, the Police Athletic League. And again, I say what a remarkable coincidence that PAL, Police Athletic League, spells out the word PAL, because the youngsters are learning through the tremendous activity and developments the Police Athletic League has had among the neighborhood youngsters in developing the athletic prowess and boxing, sandlot baseball, and all other factors. Why, it's just developed into one of the greatest relationships possible in civics. And it's going to do a tremendous amount for citizenship to the imaginative youngster who is only dying for an opportunity to express himself. And when that is channeled into the right channels, why, there's never any difficulty or anxiety about the youngster himself. It's only the poor kid that doesn't seem to have a power or a friend anywhere that gets off into other ideas and other situations that cause difficulty. Look at those planes flying overhead. Look at that ticker tape coming out of the old Woolworth building there. The Woolworth building that used to be the highest building in New York. Well, things don't stay permanent very long in New York City because about the most permanent thing about it is change. But it's still a magnificent building, that Cathedral of Commerce. And that ticker tape has a wonderful opportunity to spread itself as it descends from the Gothic towers of the Woolworth, the Transportation Building, the St. Paul Building, and the Telephone Building there at Vizian Broadway, where another great radio network had its early beginnings at 195 Broadway. This is certainly a very, very inspiring picture here today. And these youngsters in the Sandlot baseball outfits and uniforms, they seem to be mighty, mighty proud to be part of this tribute to Connie Mack. Maybe you can pick up some of the atmosphere and music here. This is one time and the first time I've ever seen bleachers in front of City Hall. But these Sandlot teams now are defiling around the speaker stand here, and they're taking their place in the bleachers here, that are arranged each side of the City Hall in the wings as they extend to east and west of the main entrance of City Hall here in New York City. That's the Department of Parks. I can read their banner now, and I could easily recognize that oak leaf that they carry as their escutcheon or armural bearing. There's an outfit coming in. Listen to them. John, what do you think at all? John Savage, our sports announcer at WNYC. Well, Tommy, it certainly is a very, very inspiring sight here. I don't know whether you can hear me too well, because the, uh, let me see if I can make out exactly what it is. Brooklyn PAL Lynn Center Drum and Bugle Corps is right opposite there. Let's see if we can pick up some of that noise that's coming over this way. And what a bunch of colorful uniforms here this afternoon as we see all these PAL teams. They've come down right in front of us now. We've seen every single precinct of the PAL represented. Now here comes the Catholic Youth Organization over on our left. Each team wearing its, uh, distinctive baseball uniforms. Of course, even the girls are dressed up in baseball uniforms, carrying baseball bats. And that Drummond Bugle Corps in beautiful, snappy new, green and white uniforms. And snappily played too, we might add. Now behind them comes the Department of Sanitation Band, which represents, I think, the third or fourth band on the premises so far. And as these bands, and as these various baseball teams gather in front of City Hall, what a crowd this is making and what a crowd is gathering outside the limits to pay tribute to Connie Mack. A man who was born, believe it or not, in the second year of the Civil War and has lived through American history from that time to the present. Not only baseball history, which has changed perhaps as much as American history, but seen our country from that time until just now. Now here is the Sanitation Department Band, followed by the Newsreel cameraman. And right behind them, representatives of the Fire Department. Let's see if we can get this music for you. We'd also like to mention that the full teams of the Fire Department, the Sanitation Department, and the Police Department, the teams that were playing each other not too long ago, the games of which were broadcast over your city station, are gathered up facing the PAO teams, which are seated in the bleachers right here in front of City Hall. It's a very, very colorful and exciting spectacle, as now a massed group of around 30 American flags carried by members of the Fire Department marches up the stairs in front of historic City Hall here in New York. And now to tell us more about this pageantry, as we look on down to our right, we see the car which perhaps is carrying Connie Mack. We can't make it out from here. So tell us about it. Here is Tommy Cowan once again. Why not you, John? Well, I was going to get out of some work there and take this in and enjoy it as a spectator, but evidently we can't tell you about it because it is a very enjoyable thing from any angle. Now, we should describe a structure which has been built up right in front of City Hall over there, where a number of movie cameramen, television men, and still photographers are taking pictures of this great mass of people. And these people, you know, are all members of one organization or other who are officially here. And actually there are thousands and thousands more people who are gathered outside the police boundary lines there to pay tribute to Connie Mack too. And what a colorful thing it is to look up on a day like this, a beautiful sunshiny and not too warm day, and still see the streamers coming down from all the buildings around City Hall Plaza. A very, very colorful thing. Now, we're still waiting the arrival of the official party. I don't see them anywhere yet, but the crowds are coming back from having watched the parade along Broadway. And they're gathering. Now we're getting some orders to lower the flags, standing by for the opening of the official ceremony. As the crowd outside in City Hall Park is shifting every which way over toward Park Row now, where there seems to be a little more room so that they can take in some of this colorful spectator, a spectacle. Of course, the lucky ones are the ones up here in front in these seats who have tickets for some reason or other to see the thing closely. And then, of course, there are the PAL teams we've been telling you about in their uniforms. Don't forget in their baseball uniforms. They're not wearing their cleats, their cleated shoes today, but in every other way, they're all dressed, ready to go to work and play ball. On our left, the Police Department Glee Club is standing by to sing some welcoming songs. And as we mentioned before, the three official teams of New York City, the Police, Sanitation, and Fire Department, are there in their baseball uniforms too, standing more or less as a salute to the many PAL teams that are here. As we look to our right toward Broadway, we can see the driveway into the front of City Hall is thoroughly masked with thousands of people now. They're pressed, I'd say, 50 deep out there, waiting for the opportunity to see Connie Mack, the man who represents so much not only in baseball, but in the American way of life to them and to all Americans all over the world. Well, I think we've got a good description of that so far. Let's go back to Tommy Cowan and see what he thinks of things as they stand now before the official ceremonies begin. Tommy? Well, let me ask you a question, John. What do you think of it? You've been up at the stadiums. Do you think the stadiums have anything on this assemblage here today? Well, outside of the two and a half dollars for a box seat, I don't think so. I don't think they paid... It would be something to get all the money that would have to be paid by the thousands and thousands of people to see a spectacle like this, but of course, this is free for the citizens of New York to welcome a citizen of our country. Well, now Connie Mack has been escorted in the back door of City Hall, and now the mayor of the city of New York will make his appearance in just a few moments. There's Phil Robinson, the wonderful athlete and himself, that great dancer, Bo Jangles. He's just been escorted to a seat because you know he hasn't been well. Our police glee club. Nelly Kelly, the baseball game knew the players knew all their names. You could see how their plays every day. Every day shall hooray when they play. Our boyfriend by the name of Joe said to Tony, I'll deal and scow. Then Nelly started to fret. We don't need to tell you what that is. It's Mayor O'Dwyer escorting... Escorting Joe DiMaggio. I should have said Grover Whelan, not Mayor O'Dwyer. The company is... Yes, Joe DiMaggio taking his place with his little boy is there. The youngster's very bashful. He's got his head down. He looks as though he's scared to death. The kid does. Joe is quite happy with the whole thing. And now the various members of the mayor's committee are assembling here on the speaker stand. In just a few moments, the mayor has scored his guest to the stand here. Mr. Whelan's acting his head usher and seeing that everybody is seated. He's just moved Bojangles Robinson up to the front seat. What a wonderful day and what a sight. Mel Allen, the great sports announcer, has just taken his place on the speaker's stand. George Weiss is just taking his place. If we started mentioning all the names here today and the famous people, why there wouldn't be time enough left to tell you it seems everybody in the world is here, whether it's sports, music, art, or what it is, they're all here to pay tribute to Connie Mack. In this wonderful panorama here in Printing House Square and City Hall Park. City Hall Park is absolutely lined deep with people who have come over from the fringe of Broadway. And we're waiting now for the mayor and his guests to make their appearance here in front of City Hall. That great expectant moment. One, two, two, three, next you're out at the all ball game. I shouldn't have talked against the police glee club, but there's so much that's interesting here and happening that we know that the police glee club is singing that national anthem of baseball, take me out to the ball game. And we don't need the invitation whenever the opportunity presents itself to do so. And with weather like this, of course, no ball game would ever have any difficulty whatever. It's a beautiful day in front of City Hall today. And Connie Mack will certainly remember this day as the one day of his life, when the great Empire World commercial city of New York, the great city of commerce and industry, turned out to pay its tribute to a great athlete. We're just waiting expectantly now for the mayor to make his appearance. And it's perfectly right to keep a huge audience like this keyed up, because I imagine when they hit here, no one will have to tell you it's happened. For purposes of proper reception, the car bearing Connie Mack didn't swing into City Hall Plaza. It came around the back and in the back door so that the proper presentation could be made of the guest, making his entrance from City Hall steps onto the speaker stand, which has been erected here in front of City Hall. This gives the cameramen and movies, television and all the other factors of publicity a better slant on picking up the first view of Connie Mack, as he makes his appearance in this tremendous amphitheater, temporarily transformed into one here in front of City Hall. Quite a sight, isn't it, John? It certainly is. And the members of the Yankee team, too, who have come out to pay tribute to Connie Mack, I don't think they're too anxious to pay tribute to his team, though. I think they're all too willing to knock his team over when the situation presents itself. However, to the grand old man of baseball, of course, it's an entirely different thing. We see Yogi Berra, for one, waving over this way. And of course, Jolting Joe, as Tommy Cowan mentioned to you, sitting right up there in front and receiving as many paudits from the crowd as anyone else has so far. And what a sight this is. We can't quite get it over to you because of the color in the uniform, since everybody has brought down all these PAL teams and the official City teams and then the bands and then the drum and bugle cars. And, well, they're all wearing different kinds of uniforms, each of which represent to them the game that they love so well. Now, Grover Whelan is walking out into the stand. We're waiting for the arrival of Connie Mack. And here he is now taking his place, escorted by Mayor O'Dwyer, on the beautifully beriven stand in front of City Hall. Tommy, back to you once again. Thank you, John. Well, I never saw Mayor O'Dwyer look so happy in my life. He's radiant, sunburned and smiling. And this is one time when he has nothing to worry about because he's dealing with athletes and good sports. And that's all Connie's having quite. He stood up now and raised his arms in benediction to this tremendous crowd. And does he look happy? And now we'll have a few formalities, as we usually do. And they're always set off by the Honorable Grover Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee. And certainly Mayor O'Dwyer has made wonderful arrangements here today. And now, as soon as it's quiet enough, you'll hear the voice of Mr. Whelan making the introduction. Mr. Whelan. We will start the ceremonies with a national anthem. Stephen Whelan. Hello. Thank you. Now Mr. Whalen makes further announcements. Mr. Grover A. Whalen. Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, you have had many honored guests call upon you at the century-old City Hall. But your guest of honor today got the greatest reception from the fellow in the street that any guest of honor ever received. Thank you. That he wants to deliver personally to Mr. Mack. I rather suspect that they're going to be exceedingly good ones. Mr. Mack, I thought that we ought to read today for the benefit of the radio, at least. A brief summary of your history. Connie Mack. Cornelius McGillicuddy. Baseball manager. Born East Brookfield, Massachusetts. December 23rd, 1862. Began as a catcher on East Brookfield baseball team, 1883. Catcher on professional team, Meriden, Connecticut, 1884. Catcher Hartford, Connecticut team, New England league, 1885. Washington, D.C. Washington, D.C. Team National League, 1886, 1889. Buffalo, New York. Team Brotherhood League, 1890. Manager, Pittsburgh National League, 1891, 1896. Catcher manager. Milwaukee team, Western league, 1897, 1900. Manager, Philadelphia Athletics, American league, since 1901. One American league pennants, 1902, 1905, 1910, 11, 13, 14, 29, 30, and 31. Won the World Series 1910, 1911, 1913, 1929, and 1930. Awarded Buck Prize for distinguished service to Philadelphia, 1829. Mr. Mayor, I give you your guest of honor, Connie Mack. Connie Mack. Connie Mack. Connie Mack. And this great overflowing crowd on the plaza of City Hall Park who have come here. And to all those who are listening in. New York City, from the youngest to the oldest, shares equally today, in a moment of great pride, to devote today to honor one of our great, great citizens, Connie Mack. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I myself have many pleasant memories over 40 years of Connie Mack. I have one that was most unpleasant. In fact, there was a time when the one person in the whole United States that I hated most was Connie Mack. It was in 1911. I was a greenhorn, learning American ways in what is still the best way to learn it, and that is to start in with baseball. And over here, Connie, in that old building, that was the World Building. The World of those days, the World Newspaper, had set up a playograph somewhere about the sixth or seventh floor. Every play was recorded on that playograph. The World Series that year, in October 1911, were between the New York Giants and the Philadelphia Athletics. Already, I had two great heroes. One was John J. McGraw, and the other was Christy Madison. I was leaning against that fence on City Hall Park that October afternoon, watching the game. Sure enough, there were many people there with me watching it, too. Mattie had the game in hand. For nine innings, here we were at it, the Giants were one run ahead. Christy Madison had everything under control. It was on the mound. It was on the mound. A shambling young fellow by the name of Baker came up to the plate. There was the pitch, and there was the hit. And on that playograph, if you could believe it, the ball went over the fence. And on that playwright, home run Baker had tied the game. And in the 11th inning, the Athletics won. At that moment, a hatred such as I had never felt before grew up in my heart not for home run Baker, not for McGinnis, not for the $100,000 infield. But I knew, and we all knew, that the cause of it all was Connie Mack. Well, Connie, as the years go by, we all softened up a whole lot. Forty years is a long time, plenty of time to forget old wounds. In that forty years, thirty-eight, thirty-nine years, a lot of those who were there that day are not here now. A lot of people have been born and have grown up while you've been the leader of a game that has given to our whole nation its greatest heroes. And your influence on the lives of people, through the game and through the men with whom you've been associated, and through the fine position that you have held all those years for them and for us, has recompensed every one of us for the sorrows that you gave us in 1911. It only takes about, say, six or seven seconds, Connie, to come from that fence over here to City Hall. It took me almost forty years to make it. And I know that everyone listening to me will forgive me if that day I had no notion at all that today would come from the world. that I, as representative of the people of the world, that I would be the leader of the world, that I, as representative of the people of the country, that I, as representative of the people of the country, that I, as representative of the people of the country, that I, as representative of the people of the country, and the millions who are no longer here, to me that I, as representing eight million people in our city and the millions who are no longer here and all the millions of the United States who have come to love you over the years, I know I'll be forgiven if I hadn't a notion that afternoon that things would change to a point where today I am the happiest person of all our eight million to have the honor to welcome you to our city, Connie, with the best wishes in our hearts for your continued health and success, and to present to you now a certificate from New York City of Distinguished Service of an outstanding citizen, Connie Mack. Mayor O'Dwyer is now shaking hands with Connie Mack and presenting him with the scroll. They're having a few little private words together that are quite amusing because they're both laughing heartily, and Mayor O'Dwyer's conversion from hatred to love was one of the distinguished things we all go through when we emulate the athlete. It isn't important who wins, but how we honor the man that does. We can hear the mayor talking in the background. He's having a little aside because he's posing for the photographers right now, and of course this is an historic event, and we want those pictures in the worst kind of a way. And then we can check back to this great day 40 years after for Mayor O'Dwyer, 50 years for Connie Mack. When he starts on this other tour, the mayor has accommodatedly moved to Connie Mack over to the other side of the stand so the other group of photographers can get in range, and the movies and television cameras on the gallery over there erected in City Hall Park might also have a vantage point. Park Commissioner Moses isn't here. He'd be after those kids that are up in the trees, but it certainly gives us a colonial touch to see the kids hanging out of the trees much as they would if there was a tree anywhere near a baseball field to take in this great event. And Connie's shaking hands with Joe DiMaggio now and the young DiMaggio youngster. The little kid is very diffident, and he hangs his head real low and almost looks as though he burst out crying with all this fuss, and now Mayor O'Dwyer is comforting him and starting getting him back in balance. And Connie Mack and the mayor and Joe DiMaggio and young Master DiMaggio, they're all getting together in a little group here with other distinguished ball players and men representatives of the sport here in a corner of the stand. And the cameramen are issuing more orders than 25,000 generals. And the funny part of it is their orders are all observed and taken because the distinguished kids understand why the cameramen want them. And they're getting it. Ladies and gentlemen, Bonnie Mack. His honor, Mayor of your city, Mr. Doyle. Ladies and gentlemen, it gives me a great pleasure to talk to you today, this being one of the happiest days that I have ever put in. And it was all due to Mayor Dyer and the Yankee organization, which decided to put on this parade due to my being in the profession 50-odd years. And I want to assure you that it's greatly appreciated. I can't find words to express my appreciation to the fans who are seated here and who have come out here today. to see the old man of baseball. Some days ago, I, some few minutes ago, I said some 50 years, but I have been in the game 65 years this fall. And it's my real intention to manage the athletics again in 1950, which will be my 50th year as a manager of that club. I just can't tell you in words how I appreciate this day and the great turnout that assembled here today. And many thanks to you, one and all. Mr. Hurt County Mack was found to the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, in one of the greatest pageants ever held here in front of City Hall that has certainly seen pageants of their kind. Mr. Mack, in your honor, the PAL band that has those glorious green suits over there will salute you. Falcon 1, Cedar Leeowned Martin? I athletic boy to praise the podium. I can't tell you how I've known theいきöpar 짓.ERE wouldn't commit exor describe your heart. green and white uniforms they're wearing. And now you'll hear them in just a second. The PAL band saluting Connie Mack, City Hall Plaza. Titanág, City Hall Plaza, on January 13th, 19th, 18th, 1879. Rosenthal, Bronco Kollege Shen. And members of baseball baseball们 are drawn in, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Come on, Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mack, I just asked the police glee club what they thought they ought to sing, and the sergeant told me he thought best to sing some of George M. Cone's old-time medal. Please squeak up. I'm a Yankee doodle, a Yankee doodle do or die. I'm a real-life nephew of my Uncle Sam. I was born on the 4th of July. And I'm a lucky baby. I'm a Yankee doodle, sweetheart. And she's my Yankee doodle, joy-o, boy-o. Yankee doodle, went to London just to ride a pony, and I am a Yankee doodle, boy. Yes, sir. Yankee doodle, Yankee doodle, Yankee doodle, give my regards to Broadway. Remember me to Herald Square. Tell all the boys on 42nd Street that I will soon be there. And I really miss them. Whisper how much I'm yearning to mingle with that old-time drum. Give my regards to old Broadway and say that I'll be there along. There's someone there I'm strong for. Her name is Mary. She's the sweetest little lady that I ever, never knew. Plain as any name can be. And she's always in my heart. But there is some lady that I can be. And so what I really like, it's a grand old name. Over there, over there. You're a grand old flag. You're a high flag. And forever in peace may you wait. You're the emblem of the land I love. The home of the free and the brave. Every heart beats true for the red, white, and blue. And it's never a boast or brag. What should old acquaintance be forgot? Keep your eye on the grand old flag. The police band and the sanitation band will play together. Take them out to the ball game. The bands are widely separated but I bet they hold the rhythm all right. They're both at each end of the plaza. If they can reconcile that, they are splendid musicians and we know they are. Now who's going to leave? They got it all worked out. But give me his friend to the police band regardez and we've seen沒有 confirmation of these. Who's going to play fight? Not most stories or anything characters, like who's chill, who likes to put people on the ground against Children. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I hope I don't hurt the feelings of the ball club sponsoring this occasion. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right, fine. There's a... Good. There's another chap on the way down suggested, or rather gave an order to Connie Mack to go after the Red Sox and lay off the Yankees. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, Mr. Mayor, the Recessionals will be played by the band and the Glee Club will journey in. Will you kindly escort the honored guest to his car. I'll be very happy to conclude this occasion on the note of God bless Connie Mack. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, possibly one of the most outstanding ceremonies ever held in front of City Hall. We use that phrase a lot, don't we? But this really was wonderful. And the turnout of youngsters, kids, and the general feeling of friendship and love for Connie Mack here today in front of City Hall makes you love New York for the wonderful city it is, because everything happens here in New York sooner or later, and you don't have to leave this wonderful town if you want to see everything there is in the world, if you're willing to wait till it comes along and hits City Hall Plaza. And today the tribute to Connie Mack was certainly one to warm the heart of Mayor O'Dwyer. And Mayor O'Dwyer made the most perfect arrangements possibly and the most appropriate in their perfection to welcome this great athlete here today at City Hall. And we pay great tribute to the athlete because, as we said before, we all strive to win. It isn't important who wins, but we fail to respect and admire the person who does. John Savage, our sports announcer, do you want to recapitulate? There's not much left to say, Tommy, except this is obviously one of the most inspiring and most successful events ever held here in front of City Hall. Because, as was pointed out by our noted speakers this afternoon, this is a man who is respected by the man in the street, the common man. This is the person he represents and what he represents is pure Americanism because baseball is Americanism in its finest essence. Well, I think we've just about taken care of this event this afternoon. The speaker stand is now empty. Joe DiMaggio, Yogi Berra, the other Yankees have all left the stage along with Mel Allen, the official Yankee broadcaster. And now the people are beginning to leave Central Hall Plaza and these many, many masked baseball teams in their official uniforms, the PAL clubs that came down here in their uniforms, the official city clubs, are all beginning to go away with a feeling, as the Honorable Grover A. Whelan said, God bless Connie Mack. Back to you, Tommy Cowan. Thank you, John. Savage. Well, we'll all tip our hats to Diamond Jim Brady, that picturesque New Yorker who said that New York was the greatest some resort in the world, and we think it's the greatest all around the resort anywhere else in the world, because everything happens here much better than it can happen anywhere else. And that's why we all love New York and Connie Mack. That's all from City Hall. We return you now to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.