Ladies and gentlemen, in keeping with the traditions of our country, I am going to reverse the program and ask the Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph Kelly to give the invocation. Monsignor Kelly. We invite the blessing of God on this assemblage and on this project for the safeguarding of the health of our people and in a particular way for the health and well-being of our children. In a very true sense, our action of the moment is an effort to repair our negligences of the past. A kind and bountiful creator gave us our incomparable harbor. He gave it to us not merely as the highway of global traffic, but in its pristine comeliness, he would delight our eyes, invite rest and relaxation, health, and a sense of well-being to our oft-times tired bodies. In the designs of the creator, this harbor of ours was surely meant as the lasting home of the resolute Lady of Liberty. It is the first and perhaps the most impressive reminder to the visitor to our shore that America is truly the favored and thrice-fledged home of free men. God gave it to us pure and unsullied, and it is in humble joy that I recall that the business of this meeting today is to determinately affirm and effectually arrange that pure and unsullied it shall be. Ours, then, is an act of reparation to the creator and author of all that is beautiful. Ours is an act of reparation to our intelligent, long-suffering citizenry, regretful as we are that the acknowledged health-protecting blessings of modern sewage disposal have been delayed for even a single day. As we see this splendid project take form today, we thank God for the genius of our engineers, for the wisdom of our legislators, for the cooperation of our citizenry, and in a particular way for the friendly firmness of our chief executive, the Honorable William K. O'Dwyer. We pray that this instrument, designed to safeguard the public health, should operate always at maximum efficiency, and we pray, too, and even more earnestly, that it will ever symbolize that cleanliness of heart, that purity of life which must ever characterize those who claim sonship with the Father of all. These are our aspirations. These are our humble hopes, O Lord. Deign thou in thy kindness to bless them and to bring them to full fruition for our good and unto thy own greater glory. Amen. You will remain standing. The Department of Sanitation Band will play the Star Spangled Banner. Good pour you, asc Volvo! THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END OF THOSE WHO MUST PLAN ORGANIZE FIND THE FUNDS AND PUSH FOR PUBLIC INPROVEMENTS IN THIS CITY WHERE PUBLIC DEMANDS ARE HEAVY AND MOST COMPLEX. the most outstanding of these leaders. I wish it were more possible to place in this cornerstone some symbol that would preserve for posterity the untiring efforts, the headaches and the heartaches of the administrative planning which these speakers, who you will hear today, have contributed to bring about this project. But no cornerstone in the world would be large enough to contain such a symbol of public service. Our first speaker is a man whose relation to the construction of public improvements has reached nationwide and I might say inter-nationwide recognition. I shall call on him first because he has another meeting to attend. I present to you the Honorable Robert Moses, Commissioner of Department of Parks and City Construction Coordinator. Thank you. Thank you. Senior Kelly, Commissioner Zermuelen, Mr. Mayor and Mr. Borough President. This is a great day not only in the history of the Borough of Brooklyn but in the history of the city and indeed of the whole metropolitan area. It's not so long since we were put on notice by our own officials and others including federal officials that the time had come for us to clean up our waterfront. I don't know how many people in New York know it. Certainly every child ought to. that we have the greatest waterfront in any city in the world and that's no exaggeration. Take the upper and lower bay and the Hudson and the Harlem and the East River and the Sound and the ocean and Jamaica Bay. There's nothing like it anywhere else in the world. Unlike many other communities as we've grown very fast, we've been indifferent about pollution and the result has been that our waterfront has got away from us and it's meant not only danger of infection, not only the possible closing of beaches, not only the destruction of conservation facilities, fishing, boating, and all the other waterfront activities, but actually has resulted in the deterioration of values. And finally, we've got to the point where we have to do something about it. Now, it costs about three times as much as it would have cost, maybe four times as much if it had been tackled before. And in a way, it seems a pity that so many of these burdens should fall on Mayor O'Dwyer because they don't represent troubles that he's made, they just represent an accumulation of miseries that have been left to him. Now, a good deal was done about this problem in the LaGuardia administration, but not enough when the war came along and that stopped work. But now we're launched on a real program which will bring about the desired result. I had occasion not long ago to go to one of the South American cities, one of the most rapidly growing cities in the world, San Paolo. They have two million people there and they have no sewage disposal of any kind, not even the most rudimentary system, salt cesspools. They've just gotten around to thinking about it. Now, that's happened in many places throughout the world. Now, here we are on notice that we've got to act and the city administration is acting and this is the proof of it. I don't know how many of you know just what the feeling is of a commissioner of Parks who was told by the health commissioner who is the final authority in such matters that the beaches may have to be closed down in summer. That's something you have to listen to. It's worse than being informed by the commissioner of housing and buildings that there are 67 violations on a city building. Much worse because it's more dangerous. Oh, we've never gotten around to having to do anything as drastic as that. I'm delighted to be here to congratulate Commissioner Zemulian on the progress he's made because we're beginning to see the end of all this pollution and to see New York again at the forefront of all the cities in the world in really tackling a big problem. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. High on the list of benefits that accrue from a project that will clean up the water surrounding our city are the improved beach facilities and better health conditions generally. No one is more closely related nor a better authority to speak on this subject than our next speaker, the Honorable John F. Mahoney, Health Commissioner of the City of New York. It is my pleasure to present him to you, Commissioner Mahoney. Thank you. Mr. Zemulian, Merrill Dwyer, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the health forces of the city, I surely would be remiss indeed if I failed to present to this audience the importance which this project is to the health of the community. For that reason, it is a keen pleasure for me to participate in the program this afternoon. It may be of some interest to this audience and to the radio audience as well to know that a very set striking and unusual set of circumstances are present in the city of New York. Basically, the city represents the most dense concentration of population in the world. Not any of the other large cosmopolitan cities are comparable in this respect. A total of 8 million people live, work, and of almost equal importance today, play within its limit. In addition, there are several hundred thousand visitors on business and pleasure bound enter the city each day. In health work, we come to depend very largely for our information and our guidance upon disease, sickness rates and death rates. When we compare the sickness rates and the death rates of the city of New York with those of smaller communities, some even almost quasi-rural communities, communities, we are astonished to note that the prevailing rates within New York City are as low in many instances and some instances more favorable than those of the smaller and the supposedly more healthy communities. We must attribute this to a basically healthy environment which prevails in the city and it would seem to become the duty of those charged with safeguarding the future health of the city to maintain this environment in its present state in order that this favorable set of circumstances which we have presented with may continue insofar as this can be accomplished by any man-made measures. the dedication of the Owl's Head Pollution Control Project represents a most important step in this broad program of environmental control. Through its operation the pollution of the waters of the harbor will be reduced and secondarily the maintenance of an adequate standard of purity for the waters of bathing beaches in Long Island and on Staten Island. This protection of bathing beaches in order that full advantage may be taken by all of the people of these recreational facilities surely becomes an important facet to the broad program of health work. Environmental control has several other broad assets all of which the present administration has undertaken. when we combine the steps which have been taken toward providing of adequate healthful water supply, toward the safeguarding of all the milk and milk products which are brought into the city, and the almost unusual similar importance being placed upon the control of smoke and the purification of the atmosphere within the city, we have then embraced the four major percent of environmental control upon which health is being. All four of these have been and are being in the process of work in control as being undertaken under the present regime, and I feel sure that if the work in the other fields makes the same type of healthy progress that that's in the control of the pollution that harbor is making, then indeed we will be able to pass on to the next generation an environment in the city of New York which was as healthy at least as that which was handed to us, and that will be a major accomplishment. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Mahoney. As most of you people know, the Board of Estimate is the highest governing body of our city. It appropriates the necessary funds and initiates improvements such as these which would mark the progress of our city. Each borough president is a zealous guardian and an active champion of all improvements that will bring benefits to his home borough. In addition, he must keep an objective view of what must also be provided in the way of public improvements for the city as a whole. Today we have a member of the Board of Estimate who has distinguished himself in both these fields of public service. The Owls Head Pollution Control Project is an excellent example of the type of public improvements which the borough president of Brooklyn has shared in creating. I am happy to present him to you now, former president, John Cashmore. Thank you, Commissioner Zemehlan, Monsignor Kelly, Mayor O'Dwyer, Dr. Mahoney, Bob Moses, distinguished guests, neighbors and friends, it was not so long ago that I had the honor of representing Mayor O'Dwyer at a ceremony similar to this one. It was the cornerstone ceremony for the $8 million treatment plants on Jamaica Bay. On that day, I recall, I mentioned that when I was a youngster, there was quite an oyster industry on Jamaica Bay. That industry, like so many others, was grievously damaged through the pollution of the waters of New York Harbor. But Jamaica Bay was not the only spot where pollution took its toll. in colonial times, the earlier settlers that came to this spot on which we stand today found that it was one of the finest oyster beds in the world. Travelers from England who visited here in 1679 recorded the fact that the shores of Brooklyn produced oysters a foot in length. Before the year 1700, these shores provided Brooklynites not only with food for themselves, but they produced the delicacies that were among Brooklyn's first export commodities. But in 1696, the first sewer in Manhattan was built and so commenced the pollution of the waters of New York Harbors. And from that time on, for nearly three centuries, the record of this city in the matter of sewage control was one of indifference and neglect. We finally reached a point in our own day when the destruction of fish was a matter of mild concern compared to the threat of the health of our citizens who bathed in the polluted waters and city beaches. obviously, the problem of pollution is not entirely new by any means. What is new about it, however, is that after generations of bungling, it is now being attacked and solved scientifically. Those of you who have good memories will agree with me when I say that there is something very new about that. I can recall that 10 or 15 years ago it was the fashion in city government to give the taxpayers nothing but projects they could look at. In fact, I heard one mayor say they don't appreciate what they can't see. Now, this matter of controlling water pollution is something the taxpayer can't see. Nevertheless, there is more than one man on this platform today who had the courage and the foresight to face this problem. Our park commissioner, Bob Moses, has long advocated a scientific program of sewage disposal. But there is a public official here to whom I wish to pay particular tribute. He is a man who lived here in Bay Ridge for many years. He is now the first citizen of the world's greatest city, our mayor, Bill O'Dwyer. He is the one man in our city who, despite his heavy burdens and responsibilities, could still realize the importance of this problem and had the foresight to do something about it. The $21 million planned under construction right here represents but a small part of the great program he has undertaken. Despite all the post-war problems he inherited, the crying need for schools, hospitals, housing, and other services, Mayor O'Dwyer, in 1948, courageously launched a five-year program costing $100 million to wipe out the sins of neglect that began so many generations ago. To indicate how tremendous a program this city has begun to attack, let me draw your attention to the report of the Interstate Sanitation Commission of 1938. The commission reported that if the pollution coming into the New York, New Jersey, and Long Island districts at that time had to be pumped, it would take 1,100 fire engines working 24 hours a day to do this job. It is clear that the responsibility for ending the contamination of the waters in this area is not the responsibility of New York alone, but under the leadership of Mayor O'Dwyer, New York City is in the forefront to meet this challenge to the health and welfare of the people throughout the metropolitan area. 85% of New York City's sewage will be brought under treatment in four years, and all of it will be controlled within eight to ten years. The waters in this harbor and our bathing beaches will have the highest possible standards of purity. I have said this before, that Mayor O'Dwyer's accomplishments in the fields of health, education, and social welfare are without parallels. And today, as we stand in the shadow of this huge building, looking across, as Bob Moses said, the finest harbor in the world, I want to repeat and emphasize that all Mayor O'Dwyer has done for the health and welfare of our city's eight million people will stand for all times as a monument to his humane and progressive administration of the greatest city on earth. To you, Mr. Mayor, and to all my fellow members of the Board of Estimate, I say Brooklyn welcomes this plant. Our three million people appreciate what is being done. And in their name, I can only say thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Borough President. After that very fine tribute to our mayor, it would be useless for me to use the usual term that is used at functions of this kind and saying that the next speaker needs no introduction. I am only an engineer and an architect, but I would have to be a combination of an orator and a poet laureate to adequately do justice to the man that I am introducing. His knowledge of the needs of the city has been surpassed only by the productive and forthright manner with which he has administered to the complex requirements of this city. Without his leadership, his guidance and strong will to make New York City a better place to live in, this Owl's Head pollution control project would still be an idea instead of the concrete and steel which you see before you. I want to take this opportunity, Mr. Mayor, to public a report to you that our sewage disposal program is on schedule and going forward. all-time high records were established by the Department of Public Works during the past year in the construction of sewage disposal facilities. They are the direct result of the backing and cooperation given to my department by you and the Board of Estimates. We are honored that you have come here today to lay the cornerstone of this project which is of which you may be well proud as another personal achievement in your public career. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Guillian. Commissioner Monsignor Kelly, John Cashmore, Bob Moses, John Mahoney, distinguished guests on the platform and neighbors, I deeply appreciate the words of praise that were given to me. I do believe that this work should have been done long ago. I think the health of a city of eight million people requires that it be done as promptly as possible. I think anything else, nothing that I know of in our whole program is more important than the health of the little children, father and mother, grandmother and grandfather. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, this business of providing for it and making programs had to begin at the beginning. Bob Moses spent many an hour and many a day and many a year before we came into office planning this. I personally could not possibly have done this without the approval, the wholehearted approval of the Board of Estimate of whom one of the most experienced and valuable members comes from Brooklyn in the person of John Cashmore. When we had it all agreed in plan and financed, you still had to have the machinery to put it across. And that has happened time and again in the last four and a half years, certainly since Fred Zemulin took over as Commissioner of Public Works and to him and to his men for the splendid work they've done generally throughout the city and particularly in this case. I cannot thank him enough on my own or on your behalf. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot to be done in this city to make it truly a livable place for the 8 million people that are concentrated in it. There are many things that you could think of today. For example, you've got to build upwards of 150 new schools if you're going to take care of the additional population of children in the next three or four years. They cost you anywhere from a million and a half to two million dollars of school. That's got to be done and it's important that not only you who are looking at me but those who are listening in would understand that that's got to be done. You will never, never have a decent transportation system in this city to be adequately furnished business and pleasure alike until you build the 2nd Avenue subway and the other improvements in the three boroughs that it will tap, Queens, Bronx, and Brooklyn, as well as Manhattan. That will cost you upwards of $500 million, but it's got to be done. Our hospital plant when we took it over in 1946 was not only inadequate, but your buildings were old. It was impossible to properly administer your public hospital system. Now you remember last year you voted to give us $150 million above our debt incurring power so that we could rehabilitate your hospital plant for the needy seeking. I was done. You've got a budget and I'd justify anyone to show me where there's a wasted dollar in it of over $1,250,000,000 to run the city for a year. Experts have combed it. They've put their microscopes on it. They've magnified them. They can't possibly find where there's $1 out of the way of that budget. And yet there are many of our workers that are entitled to better pay. If I had the money they'd get it. And yet again there are many of our departments that are crying for expansion in order to give the people of the city what they need. your police department with 18,500 men is not enough. And yet every thousand extra policemen will cost you $3 million. Your hospital department taking into account the hospitals that we're taking over the brand new ones that we're building calls for an expenditure ladies and gentlemen of better than $20 million more if we were to do a reasonably good job. welfare under the present rise in figures calls for about $30 million more than we've got. And fire department the same way and with all the criticism of the department of sanitation it will finally get down to a manpower and mechanization program that will cost you at least $8 million. If I have that I can give you that service if I haven't got it how in God's name can you help to get it? Simple as that. Now I'm leading up to a point. I'm leading up to that job that we're doing here today. This is one of the five plants that we are actually building or about to commence which when finished will give you waters especially your beach waters free from pollution. Some of them on Jamaica Bay. Some of them around the corner in Coney Island. One of them over in Staten Island and the Bronx beaches especially Orchard Beach and the new ones that are proposed. Now let me discuss that for a moment. Our health department has found pollution in our harbor and in our bathing beaches. That is true. But we're coming into a hot weather period. And it's all right to put a glaring headline that your health department has found pollution. It's another thing to explain to the people that our health department is watching those waters carefully that when they are dangerous to public health they'll be closed. But there's an indication that they'll be closed and I want to assure the people of this city in the hot months especially from the crowded sections the poor neighborhoods where the hosts of men, women and children look forward to that hour on the beach that until they're told and there's no danger at all this year go to Coney Island go to your beaches you're perfectly safe. We're watching it. We're taking full responsibility for that. We will not permit the thing to go if it's dangerous to your health. There is nothing there today that would indicate that this summer you have any fear and I'm talking to those listening in that you have any fear of going to your bathing beach as you always did. However, however, that pollution from all that open sewage, that pollution is growing all the time. The day is not very far away when they will be dangerous unless the city takes action. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what we're here for today, to take action. This is not an overnight building. This has been carefully planned over the last three and a half years. This is financed. This is going through. As Johnny Cashmore told you, $21 million worth. What do we expect from it? Neighbors, you can expect this time next year to walk along that lower walk along the waterfront and this beautiful park without any of the offensive things that you have been looking at since that walk was built or without the offensive odors because that will be taken care of. Staten Island, your beaches, freed from this pollution, will be safe and clean without any pollution. Coney Island, with what's being done in Jamaica Bay and what's being done here today, throw your hats up and share, you'll have back again the pristine purity of the water. I won't guarantee you the oysters a foot long that Johnny Cashmore said, but you'll get better, you'll get customers down there and that'll help take up the slack. And so it is, throughout the city, this program is underway. I stress again that it is one of the most important programs from a standpoint of the health of the city that we could possibly engage in. Now I can't stress that too much. I don't want to bring up memories that frighten people, but wherever you have filthy water and you have children playing in it, anything might happen. We don't want the responsibility of that. You in the apartment house, you in the one-family house, you in the two-family house, you in the multiple-dwelling house, every one of you contribute to the pollution of this faith. Your children are entitled to water, to bathe in, public speeches without pollution. The health of you and your children is important. So I'm going to ask you to pay for this cleansing program. I'm going to ask you to pay for it without squirming. I'm going to ask you to make this investment in your health, in the health of your children, and in the health of everyone in this city who comes after we're gone. How do I want that done? Why do I ask this? You've got a condition here of traffic, road building, road mending, new sewers and sewerage. you've got a lot of things that are not built by the ordinary capital budget money. It comes out of general assessment and borough assessment. Ladies and gentlemen, if we take all of the money that we can get that's financed now out of general assessment, and I'm talking about this program of anti-pollution, if we take that out, there is no money left for major programs that in another way are just as important to you. If your arterial and highway and street program is not carried out, this one, of course, is important, but need I stress in these days of traffic, and long distance planning to make this an easier city to get in and out of? Need I stress the need of that? Well, you've got an arterial program of $22 million, but you've only got $2 million for that. You've got to get the rest of it somewhere. water. If we put in to effect a water tax under the form of a sewer rental tax to each family, that will release the money that we need to carry forward our other very important programs. I have to do a good deal of talking on this one because you don't see 4,000 miles of sewers. You don't see what goes on here. And unless the public is looking at things, you have to spend that much more time telling them where they are, what purposes they serve, and why they're necessary to continue the healthy life in the city. Now let me go back. The Board of Estimates has considered this. We've given it a lot of consideration over a year and a half or two years. We finally find ourselves compelled in order to carry out these two necessary programs and other programs that I haven't mentioned to invoke the powers that we have and to add this year and at once a rental tax based upon the water consumption to pay for this program of health. That will come to approximately one-third of the water bill that you're paying now. Just take a third and add it to your water bill. In the cases of one family, two-family house or one family, it will not amount to more, much more than 40 cents a month for the entire family. Ladies and gentlemen, I unhesitatingly advocate this. I ask for it. I don't ask for it in my name. I ask for it in the name of the health of you, your family, your children, everyone who will come in contact with these beaches. Not a pleasant thing to tell you about, but don't quibble about 40 cents a month a family when it might mean polio, when it might mean gastronomic diseases that will cost anyone something much more valuable than any money you can mention, and that is the health of the individual or the family or the city. Therefore, today, this is the first announcement I'm making of it. The Board of Estimate is ready to go through, based upon a conference, final conference we held last week. this is the job. It's positively necessary. It is essential to your health. It must be paid for in order to get the money, not to interrupt the other programs that are necessary in their own way. This has to be done. The law gives us the right to do it. We believe, the Board of Estimate, and I take full responsibility for pressing it on the Board of Estimate. I believe, I hope you'll agree with me, that it would be a crying shame to leave those beaches in the polluted condition that they're in, when for 40 cents a month you can have waters that were as pure as the day that Henry Hudson came up that river. Ladies and gentlemen, that's longer than I usually speak. it's important to those who are here, it's important to those who are listening in, it's important to those who will take up this question and their civic groups later on. I've dwelt on it because I want to make the issue clear. It's 40 cents a month for family against the health of the city. thank you very much. Thank you, General. Ladies and gentlemen, in concluding this program, I want to express my appreciation to all of you who have come here and joined us in the laying of this cornerstone. I want to express my personal gratitude to all the city departments who have cooperated in making this event a success. I thought I had it all fixed with Steve Carney, but he's evidently needled in the clouds again. Mr. Mayor. I also wish to thank the contractors for the nice arrangement here so that when we did get rain, you people don't have to get wet. And now, Mr. Mayor, if our distinguished guests will present their union cards, may we proceed with the laying of the cornerstone? Yep.
