Zusammen Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. two most distinguished guests today, His Majesty King Faisal of Iraq and His Royal Highness the Regent of Iraq. The King is on his first visit to our native land. He is very much interested in the industrial development of our country and studying it. He has studied a great deal of history at his schools in England and he plans to spend some time in the western part of our country visiting the irrigation works and the great utility works throughout the country. At the same time they're going to visit the Motor City of Detroit but what I wanted to particularly stress to you, Your Honor, is the King's interest in television and through your efforts and the efforts of your commissioners we have a television city. So the King will have an opportunity to see that on his visit here and as I introduce him to you, I bid him a most hearty welcome on behalf of everybody. Mr. Mayor. Coleman, Your Royal Highness, the Prince Regent, Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want you to know, Your Royal Highness, that I as the representative of the people of the city of New York, extend to you as the ruler of your distinguished nation of Iraq, the warm welcome of the people of my city. In addition to that, I am very happy indeed to join with the President of the United States, with the officials of our government, and particularly the representatives of our Department of State. In wishing you during your visit here, not only in the city of New York, but throughout your visit to other parts of the United States a very happy and a very successful visit. I know that the President of the United States is a very happy and a very successful visit. I know that you are particularly interested in our flood control, agricultural and industrial projects, so that you may supervise better their extension in your own country under the United States Point Four agreement with your nation. Over the last twenty years, our nation has made great progress in flood control and irrigation. Our government, recognizing that the welfare of our nation depends upon the welfare of all of its people, has provided cheap rural electrification, irrigation and flood control for farmlands, for towns, and for cities as well. Yet, with this great federally controlled system, we need still more of their projects. As we learned only last spring, when one disastrous flood cost our country many more million dollars in damage and destruction than the largest flood control dam could have possibly have cost. We are still learning. We are still learning, but we are willing to pass on to others what we already have learned through our experiences. I hope, King Faisal, that you will see methods and projects here that will help your country and your people to remain independent, so that the Near East and all of its member nations will maintain their contribution to the success of the free world. Here in the city of New York, we are very happy to welcome you because, as you know, today we are happy and proud that here in the city of New York we are the capital of the world in view of the fact that the permanent headquarters of the United Nations are now located in our city. I know that during your brief visit to the city of New York, you will have an opportunity to visit the United Nations so that you may personally see what we in the United States and the other free nations of the world are attempting to do here in the city of New York in harmony, mutual cooperation, so that we will understand each other better, so that you will get to know our problems and our problems. You will get to know our problems and we have problems in the United States so that we may get to know you better, so that through personal exchange of thoughts, through personal friendships, through personal visits here with people that have the same aspirations as your own people, will be able to understand each other better and in that way try to promote better understanding among all the free peoples all over the world. I know that your Royal Highness doesn't want this ceremony to last too long because I read the papers too and I understand that you're a Dodger fan. You see, you have the right to be a Dodger fan. You see, I can't indulge in that kind of a luxury for only one reason. Here in the city of New York there's five cities within a city. And we have the Dodger team representing Brooklyn. We have the Yankee team representing technically Manhattan, but it's actually located in Bronx County, which is also a part of the city of New York. Then we have the Giants, which are technically a New York City team, a Manhattan team, but they actually have their stadium, their home grounds, right here in the borough of Manhattan. So, I want you to understand that I can't be a Dodger rooter, I can't be a Yankee rooter, I can't be a Giant rooter. Because all of the people that I represent make up the entire city of New York, make up the entire five boroughs, which are actually five cities within a city. And I want you to understand that I have to be impartial because every four years there's an election here in the city of New York. And when the election is held, I have to appeal to the good sportsmanship and the understanding of all five counties within my city. So that I, of necessity, have to be impartial. So if I have any favor, confidentially I might let you know before we leave. You leave. You leave. You leave. You leave. But I can't do it for the record. I hope that you enjoy your visit to Brooklyn today. I hope that your favorite team wins. Last night I thought I might have the pleasure of watching the Dodgers play. As a matter of fact, I intended to go to the game last night, but as you probably know, we were rained out. I thoroughly hope that you have a very pleasant stay in our city. I look forward to joining you at dinner tonight that will be given by one of our most civic conscious leaders, Mr. Thomas J. Watson. I know that during your stay in our city, you will find that the people of the city of New York reflect the thinking that I have told you about this morning. You will be received warmly. I know that the people of the city of New York will extend every facility at their command so that your visit here will be the kind of visit we hope you will remember when you go back to your homeland. And your Royal Highness, this morning, it's my great honor and my great privilege to confer upon you, on behalf of the people of the city of New York, this recognition of your contribution to world peace when I present to you the city's Medal of Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Don't you name it. Two Maria. Three Maria. Both of them have now been written every time ago, so. Don't you call them any? Father David? Don't you call them any. Pardon me. Ooh, thank God. I don't know thatическая officer now as well as a held as all of his family. That's the most decent. I see you. I will do it now Now they want to do it around here, your honor Give them a chance All right, anything else? Just like you're putting them up That's all Watch it, watch it Watch it Looking toward the mayor, your majesty All right, Mr. Mayor All right, that's enough Now, just a second All right Mr. Mayor, we're going to have the happiness of the return visit of his majesty and his royal highness On their way home And we wish them the best kind of a trip from the Atlantic to the Pacific Coast Which is in their itinerary And not to hold up the festivities of the ball game any longer We will conclude our happy reunion this morning Thank you very much, one and all your excellencies Ambassador Crocker, the ambassador of the United Nations And then Oh You want to be fine Well Sorry Going too clear Mr. Mayor Mr. Mayor It is my pleasure indeed to acknowledge most heartily your kind remarks You have given me and my friends a hospitality worthy of this great city of New York This is the first time that I see your metropolis And I may tell you that it has filled me with admiration It is one of the wonders of the world And you have a great task in presiding over its affairs May I once more thank you and your staff for your kindness and consideration Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you Thank you