The Board of Transportation announced this afternoon that the wreck caused by the telescoping of two empty Jerome Avenue subway trains earlier today is being cleared as fast as possible under the personal supervision of Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board. However, the tracks will not be sufficiently cleared to provide through service during this evening's rush hour to Woodlawn Terminal Station. The last stop for the balance of the day will be the Bedford Park Boulevard Station. There will be no service to or from the Marshalloo Parkway or the Woodlawn Terminal Station. The closest substitute facility is the Bronx Concourse subway to Bedford Park Station where bus routes number one or number two can take passengers to the Woodlawn Terminal Station of the Jerome Avenue subway. Passengers and donk subway trains can also go to the Terminal Station at 205th Street and Perry Avenue and there make use of the bus route number four which goes to the Woodlawn Terminal subway station in Jerome Avenue. I have just been notified that I have been awarded the Nobel Prize in medicine for this year. I can hardly find the proper words to express my feelings in this matter. As this is the culminating point of my life work begun in 1915 with the study of a group of soil microorganisms back to my feet. It revealed that I meet recently some of the greatest benefits to mankind. I feel particularly proud for the field of science which I represent microbiology. I feel particularly in the institution where I have done my major work in the College of Agriculture and Environment Station of Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey. I feel proud of justifying the ancient saints, even from the earth shall come thy salvation. That microbes that have healed these important chemical substances which are used in the healing of human diseases should come from the soil. Dr. Waxman, we'd like to ask you, sir, how will you go over to Stockholm, right from New Jersey? Yes, I have to be in Tokyo on the 20th of December. And I was planning to go via San Francisco, but I will change my route and go via Stockholm. I see, sir. So that instead of going west, I'll be going east. And I've got Stockholm, and from there I'll be directly to Tokyo. Could you tell us what plans you have for the money you've earned this afternoon? Well, as you know, most of the funds that are stored from the royalties on septomycin are being used for the building of the Institute of Microbiology and for the support of research in microbiology in various other ways. And I will probably use the funds in a similar manner. I don't quite know yet the details, but it will be along those lines. I see, sir. Isn't it rather unusual for an agricultural college to win an award of this type? I think that it's... I am glad you asked that question because it is quite unusual. I believe it's the first time certainly in the history of agricultural colleges and experiment stations in this country that the representative or member of the Boston Agricultural College should be given the leading prize in medicine in the world. I see, sir. Well, thank you, Dr. Moxman, very much for talking to us this afternoon. And once again, congratulations on winning the Nobel Prize for Medicine. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.