Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the reviewing stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the reviewing stand asks, can we stop the traffic in narcotics? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the causes and effects of narcotic addiction, the dope peddler, and means of checking this traffic. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Lieutenant Joseph Healy, Chief of the Narcotics Department, Dr. Edward Kelleher, Director of the Psychiatric Institute with the Municipal Court of Chicago, Howard D. Shaw, Director of the Ida B. Wells Housing Project of the Chicago Housing Authority, and Peter A. Grossa, Assistant State's Attorney in Cook County, Illinois, assigned to the Narcotics Division, the State's Attorney's Office. Now one of the worst aspects of the narcotic traffic is the increasing drug addiction of teenage boys and girls. Here is what one 16-year-old girl said on a recent mutual broadcast a few minutes after she had appeared before a New York State legislative committee appointed to investigate the use of narcotics among school children. You will hear her voice by transcription. It takes a 16-year-old high school girl to bring the story home. Trapped into the drug habit when she was only 13 years old. Marijuana, cocaine, and finally heroin. The money her parents gave her was not enough. She started panhandling. That wasn't enough either. My boyfriend and I decided that we didn't have enough money to buy dope. And we decided to try breaking into a home in our neighborhood to see if we could steal some money. We were caught by the police and at... What happened? I was arrested and sent away for several months. By this time I had become neurotic and I was sent to a mental institution for treatment for about six months. After I was discharged, I returned home and went back to high school in the Bronx. And you're still at that high school, are you not? That's right. After I was at school a few days, I started on the heroin again. I met another boyfriend and he began supplying this stuff to me. I found that the girls and boys in my group were still using dope and that also encouraged me to get back to using it. I knew about four places in my neighborhood where I could buy heroin. My boyfriend and I were buying it from other kids. The tragic story of a youngster who took dope downhill all the way. Tell us about this traffic in narcotics, Healy. Is it a special problem among teen teenage youngsters? It is. The traffic in narcotics is nationwide. It can be found in all large cities. The past six years showed a marked increase in narcotic addiction. Out of 3,750 cases we've handled, 3,162 were men and 388 were women. Now the teenagers, out of 3,750 cases, 989 cases were between the age of 17 and 20. Of the age from 21 to 25, 1,466 cases. Now under 17, we had 142 cases last year. These are Chicago figures, I take it, Lieutenant. What's been your experience over the years? Now according to the Chicago Police Department figures, we have for 1946, 550 arrests. For 1947, 712 arrests. For 1948, 740 arrests. For 1949, 2,230. For 1950, 3,712. For 1951, 3,629. Is that for the first six months? It is. And that's about twice as much to date as it was last year. That's right. How do you interpret those data, Grosser? Well, I would interpret the tremendous increase in 1951, or the first six months of it, over the past five years, as a reflection of the tremendous increase in activity on the part of all the law enforcement agencies in this area, in the problem of narcotic drugs, and in the execution of narcotic drug laws. In other words, these... Bringing the problem out into the open, naturally, it's going to look bad because it's glaring when you're just starting to put a tremendous drive on it. In other words, you're saying that these tremendous increases in arrests wouldn't necessarily mean an increase in the traffic. No. What impressions do you have? As a matter of fact, I'd say it reflects an increase in the activities of the law enforcement officials rather than in traffic. What do you think about it? What are your impressions of this, Kelleher? Well, from questioning the patients and the relatives at the Psychiatric Institute, I'm under the impression that it has also increased specifically in addition to relatively. I am much aware that the police department and the public are definitely interested in the problem and there is an increased activity. But I have seen a saturation in certain groups and in certain families, which lead me to conclude that the problem is definitely increasing in the number of individuals and increasing percentage-wise. Is that your impression, Shaw? Yes. In general, it would seem that the use of drugs by the teenagers or the younger group has shown a marked increase and may account here for a part of the increase in the number of arrests. What drugs do these people use, Lieutenant? They use heroin. This young lady whose voice we heard referred to heroin. Heroin. Is that the chief drug? Mostly around Chicago. And also morphine, cocaine, opium, and marijuana. Where do they get these drugs, anyway? From peddlers. I'm interested in these peddlers. Can you law enforcement officers tell me a bit about them? Who are they, anyway? Well, peddlers that are engaged in illicit traffic are criminals of every description, from petty thieves to top-ranking public enemies. Because drug traffic yields lucrative spoils. Are they themselves addicts? Very seldom. Except smaller-scale peddlers who push it to get their own supply. The big peddlers never use narcotics. Well, how do these people become addicts, Doctor? Why does a person get started in this vicious practice, anyway? We have a type of individual who is psychologically and probably also physically susceptible. And we've determined that the sociological background of the individual has a great deal to do with it. They are people, for the most part, who come from the deprived and the discriminated areas with poor housing and with poor family units, with poor recreational facilities. And they have a frustrated, defeatist attitude toward life. They become escapists. The narcotic that they take and the addiction forms a good, to them good, escapism. But that kind of analysis wouldn't seem to me to explain these teenagers. Well, there is a further thing with the teenagers that we are much aware of. The teenagers have a greater tendency to form groups, such as the Bobby Soxers groups and the Jitterbug groups. And they have a group philosophy about joining the addicts. There is, in addition to that, of course, the well-known fact that the more immature a person, the more emotionally unstable. A combination of those things, plus the sociological factors that I mentioned, I think explain why the teenagers are ready suspects for the drug peddler. You would say, then, Doctor, that in general, the addict is emotionally unstable, perhaps because of conditions over which he has no control, such as being discriminated against or living in an overcrowded home, feeling the economic insecurity of a group of that kind. I would say they are basic factors in the individual's forming the psychological attitude that he forms, which makes him susceptible. Well, Doctor, I heard you make frequent reference to the fact that personality defects produce susceptibility to the use of drugs. Personality defects consisting of emotional disturbances, maladjustment. And perhaps you can tell us something about that and why it is that these addicts, in the first instance, if they possessed a mental stamina to resist narcotics, wouldn't be addicts. Well, the individuals are not well-adjusted individuals. We hesitate to use the word normal, but we will say they are not well-adjusted. They are not secure-feeling people. And this sociological background, which I mentioned, is the foundation stone of their instability. Now, do these addicts try to persuade others to addiction? Is that your experience, Grocer? Well, I've been told that the heroin addict possesses a characteristic psychology amounting to a mania for recruiting. That's what makes them the most dangerous menace to our society. It's a case of one addict producing many, and each one of those many producing many more. And because of this infectious trait, an addict's mere presence and contact with this community is a potential danger in increasing and spreading addiction. Then the addict who is present in an area where the so-called mental instability is a result of, perhaps, environmental factors, the broken family, the overcrowding, the discrimination, all of these factors of insecurity, is more than likely to get a larger number of recruits than otherwise, if they were in a more secure area or neighborhood. That's true. Well, I take it you have at least two pressures brought to bear on these susceptible people. The doctor has told about it. The peddler and the addict himself. Is that correct? That's true. I disagree with the statement that the heroin addict is almost a fanatic in wanting to involve other people. I think it merely goes back to the group philosophy and the condition of this group, and the susceptibility of this group, and it's something of the philosophy of the bad apple in the barrel. I don't believe that the heroin addict is as much responsible for getting another addict to join him as the fact that the other addict is available and is susceptible and takes little persuasion in my experience. The bad apple addict suggests another one, misery loves company. That's right. The group philosophy again. The relationship then must be close. A girl-boyfriend relationship, brother-sister, brother-brother, or perhaps to a young wife and husband and so forth. In the family usually or in the group? We see that frequently and we see it frequently too in the groups of boys and even the groups of young girls apart from the family, away from the family. In many cases an individual attempts to keep his addiction from the family. What are the physiological and psychological effects of these drugs, doctor? Well, the two drugs that are the most rapid habit forming of all, morphine and heroin, and heroin being the one we have to consider because it would appear that more than 90% of the cases that we're seeing are heroin addicts. These drugs produce a state of relation or euphoria, mental excitement, which is the opposite from boredom or frustration, and a good form of escapism, good in quotation marks, again, for that individual. They put the individual into a state of mind where he doesn't really care about anything that is serious and where he doesn't have to consider his responsibilities or his pessimistic view about his future. What happens to the person who keeps on these drugs physically? Eventually, these people deteriorate both mentally and physically. In an advanced state of addiction, the addict becomes an emaciated, pale individual who is unable to eat very much and whose physiological functions are all depressed. Mentally, he becomes finally a torporous individual and in many cases undergoes such mental deterioration that we then find he's committable to a mental hospital as a mentally ill person. Do these descriptions from the doctor comport with your experience, Healy? They do. I was going to ask about the use of marijuana, particularly. Now, you encounter that as a law enforcement officer. Yes, sir. What are the effects of marijuana as you see them? Well, the marijuana user will commit very serious crimes. That's peculiar to marijuana? Yes, sir. I wonder why that is. Well, the marijuana state is a little different. It is more of an intoxication state, likely to be involving hallucinations. It has a distortion of time sense and a greater distortion of judgment and a greater stimulation at certain levels. The marijuana addict commits his crimes while he's under the influence of the marijuana. The heroin addict commits his crime of stealing, which is the main thing we see, usually at a time when he is beginning to either fear that he will be without his drug or he is without his drug and is beginning to suffer symptoms of withdrawal. Are there pretty high correlations between crime and drug addiction, Lieutenant? There is. The other drug addicts will commit petty larceny crimes to obtain money from which to buy drugs. That's the real motivation behind their crimes, you think? That's right. Well, now, is that a problem of some consequence? It is. I'd like to ask a question here. Isn't it true that usually the marijuana addict graduates into the heroin and the use of the other drugs, Doctor? Yes, we found that true. We have said about marijuana that it is not truly an addicting drug in the sense that it does not make its victims suffer agony when deprived of the drug. They can get along without it, without this dread of the impending torture. But it also does not satisfy the escapism tendency and people who start marijuana frequently proceed from that to one of the more addicting drugs. A great many of the addicts to the other types of drugs aside from marijuana will, uh, commit crimes, uh, for the purpose of obtaining pecuniary gain and sustain their drug habit. They're after money to buy drugs from the peddlers. Is that the answer? That's all the drug addict has in his mind is how much dope have I got, how long will it last, and where can I get more when that's gone? That's all he thinks about. Hasn't it been estimated, Mr. Grosso, that, uh, the average addict in Chicago steals, uh, from forty to seventy dollars worth of, uh, material or money per day, and that the, uh, sum total loss to the city of Chicago is about sixty-two million dollars a year? It's not only been estimated, but it's been, uh, practically proven that that's correct. We've had addicts who have used as high as fifty cats a day. And stealing the money, in some cases, to buy them. To buy the drugs. Well, uh, it, it would appear then that the, uh, one of the psychological effects is the inability of the addict to pursue any, uh, uh, normal method of obtaining money, such as by working or any other way. Is that true, Doctor? Well, he loses all desire and drive to do what we call the normal, well-adjusted things, and as Mr. Grosso just said, his, his world becomes, uh, how can I get more drug or be assured that I have it, and how can I keep this effect going? Therefore, he is not a person who's going to work or follow any of the usual normal behavior patterns in that respect. Addicts make poor criminals. They have no willpower. Their judgment is defective, and they can't be trusted, and they commit only these petty crimes, and they're even looked down upon by other capable criminals. Many of these addicts had no, uh, record of participation in any type of crime before their addiction. And they, uh, will commit these petty crimes, uh, with this view. They want to run a minimum risk of being incarcerated for long periods of time to be without their drug. Well, I gather from what you, you men have said that these drugs are seriously habit-forming. Is that true of all of them, Doctor? It is true of all of the, uh, so-called narcotics, with the exception, possibly, of marijuana. Marijuana is dangerous, but it's not a problem. Uh, so seriously habit-forming as the others, and many people do not stay on marijuana long. Now, when you say it, it is not seriously habit-forming, what do you mean, really? I mean, uh, chiefly that it is not a thing which produces a physiological effect, which thereafter the individual cannot seem to, uh, get along without. And, on the other hand, psychologically, it doesn't produce enough of the escape effect which the addict wants. Well, now, uh, what, what are the effects when, when an addict is taken off these drugs? Take heroin and cocaine, for example. Well, he begins to get extremely restless. Uh, he, uh, develops what we know as the sniffles. He, uh, has goose pimples. There are serious marked, uh, digestive upsets. He is not able to eat and, uh, has severe pains often in his extremities, particularly in the legs. Well, now, gentlemen, I think this, uh, presents the problem. We're discussing here on this Northwestern reviewing stand the question, can we stop the traffic in narcotics? Can we, can we stop it, Lieutenant? We can. By severe sentence upon conviction. We've had several cases recently where the peddlers have been sent, sent away to the penitentiary for 25 years to life, 15 years. We've had five-year sentences. By severe sentences in the criminal court. Now, that's, uh, that's happening here in the, in the city of Chicago. It, it has. Uh, do we, uh, see similar action in other larger cities? No. Or do you know? I don't know. And we're the only city in the country to have a special narcotic court to deal with this problem. Now, you are suggesting, I take it, uh, severe penalties for the peddlers. You think that's the answer to this problem? That's the answer. That's been proven in the past, Mr. McBurney, that severe penalties and long sentences will deter the traffic in, uh, narcotics. Well, now, by severe penalties, uh, do you mean what, uh, the lieutenant referred to here? I mean long sentences. How long? Life. 10, 10, 15 years and up. That's tough. That's tough treatment. That's tough treatment. But you're talking about the peddlers. What are you gonna do with the people who are addicted to this? Do you view them as criminals? They're sick people. They're sick people. Of course, you've got to prosecute them for crimes they commit. For crimes they've committed. But not for addiction as such? No, they will have to be treated for that. What is the law under which you're operating here in the state of Illinois? In the state of Illinois, we operate under the Uniform Narcotic Drug Act, which, by the way, uh, has recently been strengthened by amendment passed on May 4th, 1951, uh, making the penalties for violation much more severe. And precisely what does that law prohibit in Illinois? Well, it prohibits the, uh, selling, dispensing, administering, selling, and... Using? Describing. Does not, uh, prohibit the using of it. It's, it's a law then under which you can convict the, the peddlers? Definitely. Is there a federal statute in this area? Well, uh, all over the country, Mr. McBurney, the Harrison Narcotic Drug Law forms the principal basis for federal prosecution of, uh, narcotics offenses. Of course, this is a revenue law. It's, uh, passed under the taxing power of the federal government, not under the police power like our, uh, Uniform Narcotic Drug Law in this, uh, state of Illinois is. And I take it that most states have laws, uh, uh, roughly comparable to the Illinois law. Is that, uh... I'd say about 40 out of the 48 states have. Those that don't, uh, find they have no need for it because the problem isn't, uh, severe and anything that comes up, uh, can be turned over and properly handled by the federal authorities. Now, do you law enforcement agencies have the feeling that, that, uh, the, the, uh, the laws are adequate under which you're now operating? They're adequate. Uh, do you agree with that, Grossa? Yes, they're adequate and they can be enforced. Uh, Treasury Department regulates and directs the flow of narcotics to medical needs. But likewise, it's also charged with the control of the malignant flow to illicit channels and they should be, uh, operating chiefly at the international and interstate level. Uh, it, uh, would appear then that, uh, since there is nothing in the law which, uh, uh, has any penalty for addicts, that provisions will have to be made, uh, to properly hospitalize these people. And that a part of the law should be that the addict may be sentenced to this hospital for cure. Because while free, he is the menace we have just described. What do you say to that, Keller? Well, I agree that the addict has to be, uh, stopped. We must ascertain and stop the source of supply. I also feel that the addicts have to be found and they have to be confined for treatment. That means that we must, uh, provide physical facilities and adequate personnel. And I'm not certain that we do not need a new law which permits the judge to confine these people for treatment rather than confine them to a jail because they have stolen something. And the last point, I think, in, uh, eliminating the problem is that of carrying on an intensive, well-organized educational program. What is done with these addicts when they're apprehended now, uh, Lieutenant? They're taken to the narcotic court, a charge placed against them. What kind of a charge? It's a violation of the city code. Covers narcotic addicts. And what, uh, what happens to them? They can be sent to jail for a year for a $200 fine. And that is being done regularly? It's being done every day. What do you think of that, uh, of that process? I don't agree that that gives the individual a chance to be treated. It gives him a chance to be confined somewhere long enough to interrupt his addiction. If we could do something like that and at the same time supply sufficient psychologists and psychiatrists and social workers to treat them while they're in the, uh, institution to which they're now confined, and, uh, furthermore carry on a follow-up treatment in the community in addition to this educational campaign which is designed for prevention rather than cure, then I think we would, uh, have taken all of the necessary steps. I, uh, would like to, uh, inject in here one question that hasn't arisen, that, uh, suggestion has come up that, uh, the people who are addicts should be allowed to, uh, buy their, uh, provide themselves, uh, with dope. I think, uh, this has come up several times in discussions. Uh, as far as the psychiatrist is concerned, that would only legalize an abnormal behavior which has no basis in, uh, moral law, and I think history shows us that the only legal principles which have survival value are those which are based on sound moral and ethical principles. Did you have a point, Gosa? Well, uh, doctor, there is an urgent need for rehabilitating and psychiatric treatment after, uh, the preliminary treatment for the withdrawal of the drugs. That can be accomplished, I understand, anywhere from three to about 21 days to relieve the patient of his cravings for the drugs, and then there follows a period of two or three months in which the patient gains anywhere from 15 to 20 pounds, but then what? Then he needs a treatment for those personality defects which made him an addict in the first place, and if you don't have that, the treatment was of no avail. Like the U.S. Commissioner of Narcotics once said, it's like rescuing them from a sinking ship only to set them adrift in a leaky boat. Then it would appear that the men and women, both the addicts, would be better treated if there were a follow-up treatment to remove these, uh, factors which would cause them to be susceptible in the first place, or their, uh, their susceptibility resulted in their addiction. Is that true, doctor? That's correct. What Mr. Grosso says is correct, that the physiological treatment can be affected quickly, rapidly, but the psychiatric and sociological treatment is going to take time. We have cases every day of patients or addicts who have been away to Lexington from six months to a year, and the day they were released from prison or from the hospital, they went out looking for a shot. As soon as they come back to Chicago and back to their old companions in the same old environment, they're right back on again. Now, if we had some kind of a camp where they could be sent away for a couple of years, or put them on a farm, get them away from the old environment, it might help. What is Lexington, Lieutenant? It's a government hospital at Lexington, Kentucky. That's a federal hospital. It is. There's another one like it at, uh, Fort Worth, Texas, and I think they handle quite extensive treatment for women at the, uh, federal prison at Alderson, West Virginia. Am I right, doctor? That's right. There are only three places in the United States that the federal people can help us with the problem. Then, then as, uh, but the treatment should be continued at the farm, or at the camp, or whatever place to which, uh, they are sent. Sure. Is that true, doctor? And continued in whatever community they return to. Every attempt should be made to better their environment. What kind of treatment do you mean? What do you do with these people? And how effective is this treatment? I mean psychological or psychiatric treatment of the individual and sociological treatment of his community. It means analyzing the individual's personality. It means educating him. It means, uh, stabilizing him and, and, uh, giving him a, uh, a hope and an optimism for his future and a feeling either that he is secure as an individual or that he can obtain security and not have to escape. You're saying then it isn't sufficient simply to deprive these people of drugs for, for a period of time? No. Not at all? Not at all. The memory of the pleasure of what narcotics did for him, it's always in their mind if they return their own environment. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Can We Stop the Traffic in Narcotics? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Lieutenant Joseph Healy, Dr. Edward Kelleher, Howard D. Shaw, and Peter J. Grosso. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the subject, Teenagers Face Their Problems. Our guests will be four students, high school students, who are now attending the National High School Institute at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the subjects, Teenagers Face Their Problems, by four outstanding youngsters from different geographical sections of our country. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast to coast. The Mutual Broadcasting System.じゃないHHHHH The name is 224 estates of the year in High School now, Mr. Ed. Shaw, that Brazilian throws up quier한� 이걸 down to the Georgiaíficお願い, Rachel Wright. The name is Nancy Michael David. They will tell you about Ken Love Til Happier