At this time, I would like to call on our colleague and our friend, Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York City, for the greetings on the part of the City of New York. Mayor O'Dwyer. Mayor O'Dwyer. Excuse me. President Greene, Mayor Lee, distinguished visitors, your selection of New York City for the 1950 Annual Convention of the United States Conference of Mass is a source of more than ordinary pride to us. We're most happy that you made this selection. We're grateful to you for it. And to those gentlemen who have come from distant places to join this conference, we hope that you'll have an opportunity, all of you, to meet them as closely as we've had in the last day or two. It's something that you will find, as we have found, that no matter where there are people, there are problems. And the closer you huddle them together, the bigger the problem. Look around you in New York City for that one and you'll see a few problems. As the Mayor of the City, and as your colleague in City Management, I welcome you and hope that your visit here will be happy and fruitful. In the course of this conference, you will hear distinguished speakers on important subjects affecting municipal government. You will exchange information and experience concerning these mutual problems. At this point, it is my function to welcome you and not to discuss any particular problem. I would like, however, to say a few words about the growth of our cities and the significant job that is being performed by the United States Conference of Mayors. In the early development of our country, there were many who expressed fear that the increase and growth of cities would bring about oppression of the honest people of the countryside. In the Constitutional Convention of Massachusetts in 1820, for example, it was feared that if cities were chartered, they would pass bylaws which would, quote, ensnare and entrap, end of quote, rural folk who might have to go to do business in cities. In the New York Constitutional Convention of 1821, it was feared that the masses of the city of New York would soon be sufficiently numerous to rule the entire state. Well, I have a secret for you on that one. They did get to be that numerous, all right, but they never succeeded in breaking down the state's control of the legislature. We're still where we were in 1821. That doesn't mean, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that we're not trying to break it down. We surely are, without too much success. Now, such expressions of fear are to be found in other places. For instance, de Tocqueville, a shrewd and perceptive Frenchman who visited this country in 1831 and 32, he wrote two excellent volumes on Democracy in America. And he expressed this thought, that New York and Philadelphia, each with a population of one 202,000 and the other 161,000, that they were already too large. He went on to say, quote, I look upon the size of certain American cities, and especially on the nature of their population, as a real danger which threatens the future security of the democratic republics of the new world. And I venture to predict that they will perish from this circumstance unless the government succeeds in creating an armed force, which, while it remains under the control of the majority of the nation, will be independent of town population and able to repress its excesses. End of quote. Now, such was the comment and the conclusion of an unusually intelligent observer, himself a man with considerable faith in democracy. Force, armed force, was to be the only hope of city government. Incidentally, and parenthetically, I hope your visitors won't combine the thought of detainment to Tocqueville in 1831 with a couple of high school boys that got out of hand here in New York last week. Fortunately, American history has proved that these fears were unwarranted. Cities as we know them today are the very centers of the life of the nation. The services rendered by cities to their people are almost innumerable. Their activities touch almost every phase of life. Practically all the great schools of music, of art, and applied science, and the great institutions of higher learning are to be found in cities. In an infinite degree, there are productive agencies producing material, intellectual, and spiritual goods for all the world. At the same time, they are immense consumers of goods and values of all kinds, particularly the products of the farm. Each day in this city alone, we import from the countryside 22,500 tons of foodstuffs. And each one of you, in similar proportions, you actually provide the market for the farmer, so that the city has not been as hard on the farmer as they expected a hundred years ago. It is true that these hives of life and industry were confronted with some of the most perplexing moral and economic problems. Nonetheless, American cities have met the challenge by democratic means. For that fact, the United States Conference of Mayors is a living proof. Born in the dark days of the Depression in 1932, it has become, over the years, a meaningful organization, which has made a unique and distinct contribution to an effective municipal government. It has supplied the medium by which American municipalities are able to discuss their common problems and promote municipal cooperation as a method of securing better city management throughout the United States. I think it is no exaggeration to say that the United States Conference of Mayors has unified the spirit of cooperation among America's municipalities and has challenged their efforts for the benefit of the entire nation. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the second time that this city has been honored by this convention. This is a part of the celebration. In 1948, you were kind enough to take notice that that year our city was celebrating the charter that had made it greater New York. And you wanted us then, by holding your convention here in this city, as a part of the celebration that we had of that event. Again this year, I have the increased honor, the added honor, of welcoming you for your selection of this city, believe me, the compliment that you pay has not been lost in any part or branch of our city government or its people. With this selection comes a responsibility which I as the mayor and my official group feel very keenly, and that is that we'll be able to measure up. We'll be able to supply or furnish you with the type of entertainment that we would like to do to you and to your families. It would be our hope that as you leave New York when this conference is over, that you will find we are a large city made up of a lot of people, made up of a lot of poor people, hard-working people. People that are not loaded with guile, just have the problem of a day's work, paying the rent, getting clothes for the children to go to school, doctors, bills, and the movies once in a while. Not too much entertainment. Not too much entertainment. Not too happy a life at all. That is a part of the, that is the curse, if there is one, of a big city. That the things of nature, the beautiful things that were here before man came, that smaller communities can enjoy, are almost strangers. Things to which the city people are mostly strangers. Look on us as trying to solve the problems of eight million people set down closely together in a small space of 365 square miles. Think of the health problem we've got, transit problem, policing, sanitation, hospitals. But the things that you have to do to substitute in a big city physically, by man-made rules, by money that must be collected to do it, that in smaller communities can be handled much more easily and with greater pleasure and in a more helpful way for the people of the smaller communities. Just forgive us the weaknesses that you'll see, and you'll see many, and we'll be most happy to study this conference and to find out from the united thinking that will go on here, will be expressed in the discussions, with a view that somewhere along the line we can get from you, some idea that would make the lives of our people in New York City better than before you came. With that note, I leave you one thought that's uppermost in my mind. One person in the whole room for whom I have such a high admiration, and with whom it was so easy to work during the year. Now that he comes here, as the president of this conference, I think I join with every man and woman in this room, in paying the highest compliment we can describe in words to the president of the National Conference of Mayors, Mayor Cooper Green of Halibut, Birmingham. Thank you, Mayor. We just heard the address of the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, at the Waldorf Astoria to the morning session of the United States Conference of Mayors. Mr. Green. Welcome. פה Bit of PalmaWe just heard