The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand, the SAR European Trouble Spot. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand looks at one of Europe's hotspots, the SAR, a rich industrial region lying between France and Germany. Our unrehearsed, give-and-take discussion will center around the current controversy between France and Germany over control of this important region and the importance of the SAR in our struggle for world peace. Now, our moderator, Dr. Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Dr. Boren. The disposition of the rich SAR region, before last week considered a closed subject by the French, and all but settled by the other Western powers, has again become the bitter issue of disagreement between France and Germany. This controversy between two of the continent's historic rivals today threatens the peace of Europe, and may well be one of the stumbling blocks in establishing world peace. Here, before the Reviewing Stand microphone, to discuss this European hotspot, is Helmut Hirsch, author, historian, and former Paris correspondent of the SAR newspaper, Vestlande. Roy MacCready's, Professor of Political Science from Northwestern University. And Jean Véla, Consul General of France. Gentlemen, before we get into the rather complex issues in the current struggle for the SAR territory, I think we should find out something about the territory itself. Hirsch, just what is the SAR? The official name of this territory which you are discussing today is SAR land. From 1919 to 1935, when this territory was under the rule of the League of Nations, its official name was SAR territory. You may also hear people call it SAR area, or SAR district, or SAR region, or SAR basin, or SAR valley. All of these names are derived from the River SAR. It is a tributary of the Moselle. The Germans pronounce it Mosel. Yalla may know it from the nice wine that grows there. The Moselle, of course, flows into the Rhine. In other words, this is a region on the left bank of the Rhine, south of Luxembourg, north of French Lorraine. And like Alsace-Lorraine, which is bigger and therefore better known to us, the SAR land is one of those border provinces over which French and Germans have been fighting for the last 1100 years. How large is the territory, Hirsch? Well, just as this area has as many names as the sea monster has tails, which in part reflects its changing history, it has also different sizes. The present SAR land is somewhat larger than the League of Nations SAR territory was from 1919 to 1935, because, for economic reasons, some additional districts have been joined with it after this war. Now, in its enlarged size, the SAR land has 991 square miles. Well, Hirsch, could you give us an idea of the size of the territory by comparing it with a state in the American Union? All right. Rhode Island, by far the smallest state among the United States, has about 1,200, even in terms of Europe. The SAR land is a very tiny country. But, as we can understand, the SAR land is love it nevertheless very much because it is their homeland. Macreedis, can you tell us anything about the population? The size of the population, that is. There are about 1 million inhabitants in the Zara territory, and to my best understanding, although my friend here, Viala, might not like what I have to say, they are mostly German. Well, I wouldn't approve that. I think they are under the influence of Germany, they have been for a long time, but there is also a deep and important French colony there, which was dated from the time where the SAR land was French. Well, Viala, there is no doubt that this territory has been exposed to both cultures. But it is my understanding that, predominantly, the culture in the Zara territory is German. Well, that's why we agree. We French people agree to that point of view, and that's why when we have created the University of the SAR in 1948, we took that in account. And at the present time, the University of SAIS, just as well as German and French, and the teaching is made in both languages. Viala, why is the territory so important, so vital? Well, we consider it very important for many reasons, which have always been the same, for historical reasons, for military reasons, for economic reasons, and political reasons. I would like to develop each of these points. That will take too long, but these are the main points. Macreedys, can you tell us anything about the people who live there? Well, there are, as I said, there are about one million people there, of predominantly German culture. I understand there are about 600,000 Catholics in the territory. Well, now that we have the SAR placed, we know its location, we know its size, something about its people. It seems reasonable to ask about the recent events that have made this a rather important spot on the Earth's surface. Macreedys, did the recent French-German conference over final settlement of the territory bring this age-old problem out of hiding? It certainly did. The most important recent event has been a treaty, signed only a few days ago, between France and the Zara territory. According to this treaty, the French will lease the coal mines of the Zara territory for a period of 50 years, giving in return an administrative autonomy to the inhabitants of the territory. Well, that's where, in fact, this disposition, which were taken recently, that was exactly on the 3rd of March, between the SAR government and the French government, only confirmed the convention and the agreements which were already foresighted when the constitution of the SAR government was prepared in 1947. Of course, Chancellor Adenauer would not agree with you. He claims that no such agreement has been made which would integrate permanently, for all practical purposes, the Zara to France. There is no matter, no question of integration. At any moment, there has been no words like that pronounced between the French and the SAR government. There is no integration with the constitution of the SAR or detached politically the SAR government from the German government. And it was understood at that moment that it would be economically integrated to France. And integrate is a word which, in my opinion, is not absolutely right. It is due to a certain amount of conventions signed between the two countries. I do not know what else you would like to say about that, but it seems to me economic integration is a step towards political integration in the long run. France has made every effort to set up high tariffs, actually isolating the Zara territory from the rest of Germany. Well, I think we ought to look at this not from the French and from the German viewpoint alone, but from the viewpoint of the peace of the world. The kind of peace that we have can be maintained as long as none of the two power blocks feels strong enough to attack the other. You've been talking... Now... Go ahead, Hirsch. An important part, excuse me, of our strength is European recovery. And an important part of European recovery depends upon the cooperation of the two most powerful continental countries, France and Germany. Precisely, excuse me. It seems to me that the recent trends, the recent treaties signed between France and the Zara territory is prejudicial to that idea of Western Union and Western cooperation, because it gives one power the right, unilaterally, to take decisions. Do you agree with that, Viola? I don't agree at all. I think that the country, the disposition that was taken between the two governments, the Zara and the French government, are beneficial not only to the Zara and to France, but also to our Europe, because the economic integration, those conventions that were signed have no political sense, and it has been repeated very often by Mr. Schumann, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, there was no question of annexation of any kind, either any political entanglements in those conventions. I respect very highly your point of view, but nevertheless, Chancellor Adenauer came with a statement only a few days ago that he would not participate in the Western Union. Go ahead. Go ahead, Viola. In that case, I must point out that it is only the first time that since it has been questioned of these last conventions, that Mr. Adenauer raised some difficulties about them. There has always been several conventions signed between the Tsar and the French government, and particularly one which was very important concerning the border of the Tsar, and the German government and Mr. Adenauer never pronounced anything about it. You gentlemen have been talking here extensively about the French-German controversy, and you have indicated the points of view very well, I think. I think we all might be interested for a few moments here to glance at some of the stakes. In other words, why is it so important that we have such a great controversy at this time over the Tsar region? I would like to answer that question very bluntly indeed. I do think that the most important element which makes Tsar such an importance for France is coal. They have been producing something equivalent to 12 to 14 million tons of coal a year, and also the total steel production in the Tsar territory correspond to something like 25% of the German production in 1935. Well, I agree that economic considerations are very important, but I think you wouldn't understand the full implication of this problem if you thought the French government is merely thinking in terms of coal and steel. It has to consider what the opposition thinks. It has to consider French tradition. It has to consider French anxieties about what might happen if Germany is in complete control of the Tsar economically and politically. But no matter what French anxieties and traditions are, it seems to me that as long as the German parties from the extreme left to the extreme right in both western and eastern Germany are opposed as they are to the separation of the Tsar from Germany and have not apparently accepted this settlement, there is something that is in need of some further development. Well, we must consider in that question also that at the present time there is no question, no nation in the world which can do without its neighbours or the supplies of raw material or anything else. And we in French people have constantly had in mind that it was the welfare of the Tsar to deal, to go for the convention that we have signed very deliberately without any pressure. I agree. I will say one more that to the coal situation we must also consider the steel situation of Tsar which needs the iron ore for Lorraine and the two countries are complementary. That has been so for a long, long time and I'm all in favour of good neighbour relations but it is my opinion that you do not establish good neighbour relations by moving to the neighbour's house. We have never moved to the neighbour's house. The only thing we put was to put the Tsar people in their house. Well, I'd like to make one comment here. In the first place you have, of course, the communist opposition in the Tsar. That's about 10% of the Tsar electorate. An opposition, however, which the Tsarland would have to reckon with even if it were heaven on earth as long as it is not a communist heaven. But you do have several factors of insecurity that Tsarlanders must notice. As long as there is no German peace treaty, the fate of the territory will hang in the air and people will not know whether they will be in 1951 or 1952 either what they are now or belong to another country. And economically, it's everybody's guess where some of the Tsar products will go which the French economy may not be interested in absorbing. And culturally, also, I'm inclined to believe that while French culture, of which we all think very highly, has more favourable conditions in the Tsar than German cultural influence, of which many people think also highly, there might be some cultural rivalry instead of being cultural cooperation as there should be. It seems to me that the idea of a peace treaty is somewhat misleading here because although I realize that the solution now is not a permanent one, nevertheless, it seems to me we're not going to have a treaty with Germany for a long, long time to come. In other words, you think that we ought to have some sort of an interim treaty? Exactly. I think we ought to have some kind of agreement which will take into consideration the free will of all concerned parties. Hear, hear. Would you agree with that, Viala? I perfectly agree with that and that has been the policy of France concerning Tsar since the beginning. Tsar, in all the decisions which have been taken by their population and their government, it has been always in a free will, on a free will position and it has not been influenced by anyone, either by France or by Germany. We consider the Tsar as a free people and their constitution is the proof of that. Well, how was it in 1919? Shall we perhaps take up that problem? Hirsch, would you like to tell us about the situation in reference to the Tsar following World War I? Well, it seems to me that at that time the Tsarlanders themselves were not asked. The Tsar was put, as you all know, under the rule of the League of Nations. It would be interesting for me to hear what our friend Vialla has to say about the French viewpoint of that period. Well, immediately after the First World War, that means sometimes in March 1919, the French issued a memorandum which was delivered to the Allies which was divided in two parts. The first part was concerned the restitution of France of the territories which had been part of the French Kingdom, the French Republic, and the French Empire, which had been separated by force in 1914 by the Treaty of Paris and 1915 by the Treaty of Vienna. 1814. And we mustn't forget that in 1870 the Tsar was called by the German the French Nest. Can you tell us something about the American position at this time, Hirsch? Well, perhaps it would be more accurately first to sketch what the German position was, and then since the American position was one of compromise... Well, maybe MacReady could help us out here. I might say something very simply about the German position. They were impressed very much about Wilson's 14th point. Namely, the self-determination of all countries. And they believed that no part of German territory would be taken away from them without their consent. As a result, when the Tsar territory was placed under the League of Nations, German nationalist movement was aroused, and Hitler, time and time again, referred to his enslaved brothers, as he used to call them. Well, the most discouraging thing to me was not so much the solution as the lack of preparation on the part of the Americans when the Tsar question came up during the peace negotiations. Of course, we had very distinguished Americans in that delegation, but they didn't anticipate that this question would come up, and President Wilson became the victim of certain diplomatic maneuvers, which I shall not describe because I don't think we should warm up this rotten dish but throw it out. And it was also a part of the lack of American preparedness when Bernard M. Baruch, then Chairman of the United States War Industries Boards and Economic Advisor to the American Commission to Negotiate Peace, who made perhaps the most intelligent proposal for a solution of the Tsar question, came too late to the meeting to submit it, as he himself was frank enough and good enough to inform me recently. Can you tell us anything about that proposal, Hirsch? Well, Baruch's plan was to sponsor a Franco-German agreement for the just distribution of both France's and Germany's natural resources. And I think that his plan, as well as Wilson's compromise solution of putting the Tsar under an international government to avoid control by either side, were fine examples of the role that an impartial and powerful American mediator can play in difficult European affairs. In other words, you do prefer the idea of an international solution to the solution given now, don't you, Hirsch? I think I can say right at this point that I do, but perhaps we should first trace the discussion by finding out what happened in 1935 at the end of the League of Nations regime. Yes, I think the 35 plebiscite should come in for some discussion here and maybe you can tell us something about that, Biala. Well, as you know, the plebiscite was the condition that was imposed by the President Wilson before agreeing to the French point of view that the Tsar mines were to come back to France. And we French people consider that the plebiscite was a very good mistake and we consider that what happened after the plebiscite is certainly the best proof of that because all the distresses that fell upon South, France, the Reich and maybe the world are certainly taking their route in that decision. Would you agree with that, Hirsch? No, I wouldn't agree with the motivation, although I would agree with some of the facts that Biala mentions. I advocated at the time, if I may say that, that the Tsar be not turned over to Hitler, although I thought that it was a German territory. But the majority of the Southlanders apparently voted in favor of the return to Hitlerite Germany and that was, of course, bad. Now, probably not 90% of the people did vote for Hitlerite Germany. That was the official result, but someday I may be able to tell the American public about the theory, which is now fairly well accepted in France and the Southland, according to which the results of the plebiscite were a little bit corrected. Of course, when the idea of the plebiscite was introduced, nobody would expect that a Hitler would be in power in 1935 when the plebiscite took place. It seems to me unwillingness now to accept the idea of a plebiscite means fundamentally that we do expect another Hitler to come to power or that Germany is inherently bad, which I cannot accept. Well, to the French point of view, we admit that when you have made a mistake, you must take into consideration the experience that that mistake has given to you and there is no question that the plebiscite at that moment was not necessary and it is not anymore necessary at the present time because we consider that the plebiscite was made by the Saar people themselves when they voted for their autonomy, their constitution and to become a free country and they are. Is France concerned about making the same mistake again Viala? Is that something? Well, we consider that the Saar question is settled as far as the independence of the Saar country. Even the treaty provides that Saar will become independent in 50 years. You seem to reject even that. No, there is no treaty about it. You are speaking about a treaty. There is no treaty. That's some conventions that have been signed between the Saar government and the French government. We are being a little technical now. I don't see very great difference between a convention and a treaty. That's not the same. That's not the same. The treaty has an influence on the international, on the whole international problem. While the conventions that have been signed between Saar and the French are purely concerning the economic question which can be raised between two countries. I certainly hope you're right. I like to think the way you do. Well, I hope. What do you have to say about that, Hirsch? Well, I can only hope that whatever mistakes might have been made recently on either side will be reconsidered and that some solution will be found that will reasonably satisfy all sides. I have some ideas as to how that solution might be arrived at but I am more interested in knowing what you gentlemen have to say about it because it's such a very complicated and serious business. Well, in the last few moments we have certainly located the Saar. We have described it, I think, and we have talked to some extent about the current controversy that is raging over that particular territory. You gentlemen have even given us a history lesson on the development and the history and the culture of the Saar territory itself. I think I should be interested here at the final moments of our discussion to hear some solutions that you gentlemen would like to propose in the settlement of this particular problem. Viola, do you have any ideas as to how this particular problem should be solved? Well, I have my personal ideas certainly which derive from the attitude of the French government. As you know, the French government is faithful to the policy of economic unity of the Saar with France which was explicitly approved by the people of the Saar in three successive popular votes. France has no other aims in the Saar than those defined in the constitution of that country. The French are firmly resolved to ensure the maintenance of the situation thus established in law and in fact. As well as respect for these essential provisions, economic attachment of the Saar to France conditioned by political separation of the Saar from Germany, cooperation between the two countries in the cultural field as stipulated in the Franco-Saar cultural agreement based on the constitution, the French government in numerous circumstances has always declared that it will do everything in its power to develop and strengthen the political economy of the Saar. Such policy of the Franco-Saar union will, in the opinion of our two people, show to Europe the way to unity. Just one question about that particular solution. Do you think it's motivated pretty much by a fear of a revived German nationalism? I don't think it has been taken into consideration. It has been only the French had only the care to give to the people of the Saar who wanted their independence, vote for independence and get it. Maccredis, do you have any definite ideas about the type of solution that we should find for this particular problem? As I have indicated, I certainly do, and I'm afraid I disagree with Mr. Viala. I do believe without any hesitation whatsoever that the incorporation of the Saar into France pending the drafting of the final treaty with Germany is bad from every point of view. The signing of the treaty with Germany is now to take place for a long, long time. As a result, I think that the attitude of France will be prejudicial to the idea of Western Union and the idea of European economic cooperation. I think it's also prejudicial to our efforts to help the German Republic establish democratic institutions. One does not sell democracy in exchange for coal. It's also prejudicial, I should think, to the domestic policies of Western Germany. It's bound to arouse German national. I think that it implies the acceptance on the part of the Allies of methods which have been rejected time and time again. I do not think in my own mind that I know Mr. Viala does not share that point of view at all and I appreciate his opinion. I do not think that there is any difference between the way in which we have treated the Saar territory and the way in which the Natchez treated Alsace and Lorraine. I do think that fundamentally the Saar is a German territory. As for my solution, I think it's fairly simple. I think the Saar territory should be returned to the German Republic, to the Western German Republic. I think that the Germans ought to be forced to nationalize the coal mines and the steel industry. I think those industries ought to operate under constant Allied inspection. Finally, I do think that the allocation of coal to the different Western powers should be made in accordance with directives established by the ECA and the European Economic Council and that the Allied Control Commission should be responsible to carry out those directives. I think it's only fair that we give Mr. Viala just a moment to offer some rebuttal to that kind of a solution. Well, I wouldn't like to go into details but I want to say just to raise the point that this, in my opinion, is representation of the attitude of France towards Saar and towards Germany. We have been very generous with the Germans and when Mr. MacRuddy speaks that says that France trades democracy for coal, I think that's absolutely wrong and there is no word that I can say to raise my voice against that. May I say the word of compromise? I would not want to cast any aspersion in the character and the nature of French democracy. I have the highest respect for it. No, but you know that the democratic ideas in France have been long enough in force so that we don't trade any democracy for anything in the world and if we had done so, we wouldn't be where we are at the present time. I think we should turn now to Mr. Hirsch for his ideas on the solution to the problem. I hope I can offer some compromise. In my opinion, two suggestions might be helpful for any effort to settle this serious and complicated business. One, an American mediator of the experience and authority of a man like Bernard Baruch could render real services to all interested parties by inviting them to iron out their differences under our auspices. since we have not all the anxieties and obligations of European governments and dispose of vast reserves of power and wealth, we can and should help Europe finding its unity. Two, a compromise solution that might have some chances of reasonably satisfying all interested parties should probably combine some of the ideas of the Secretary-General of the French Socialist Party which were made by him in a press interview of August 23, 1949 and some of the ideas of the Prime Minister of Rhineland was failure offered in 1949 in a memorandum. The French proposal apparently was that the Sauerland be united with France economically by remaining with Germany politically whereas the German official wished to put Sauer coal and iron industries under international control and reestablish Sauer commercial relations with Germany. To internationalize Sauer industry in the interest of all Europe under an American umpire and yet to preserve what is left of Germany politically until the creation of the United States of Europe such might be a possibility of making the Sauer a bridge instead of keeping her a better ground on which recovering Europe might fall sick again. Thank you gentlemen. you have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion the Sauer European trouble spot. why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. A copy may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. You may subscribe for reviewing stand pamphlets for only one dollar for the next four months two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. May I repeat that address? To the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today heard on transcription were Helmut Hirsch Professor of History from Roosevelt College Roy Macridis Professor of Political Science from Northwestern University and Jean-Joseph Viala Consul General of France. And now our moderator Dr. Leighton Boren will tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand deals with a question which is frequently asked by parents. Should children be spanked? Our guests will be Robert J. Havighurst Professor of Education and Chairman of the Committee on Human Development at the University of Chicago. Dr. Helen Newman Member of the Citizens School Committee of Chicago. Arthur H. A. Strike Superintendent of Schools from Kenilworth, Illinois. And Viola Theiman Professor of Education at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a frank and revealing discussion on the controversial question Should Children Be Spanked? May we repeat you may subscribe for reviewing stand pamphlets for only $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year. Address the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. The reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast each week as a public service feature of Mutual. Walt Newton speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. A scroll