Today, the National Grange members take pleasure in giving strong practical support to the United Nations by devoting its radio time to a transcribed feature broadcast prepared by United Nations Radio and starring Gary Cooper. The program follows immediately. United Nations Radio presents Gary Cooper with the third in a special series of dramatic case histories, Shooting Gallery. Shooting Gallery. Shooting Gallery. And to tell you this unusual true story, here is Gary Cooper. Did you ever meet a dope addict? Did you ever speak to one? Did you ever wonder how an addict feels? What he thinks? How he got that way? Well, today you're going to meet some addicts face to face. These people could have been your neighbors, an engineer, a doctor, a judge, a 59-year-old lady, a high school kid. All dope addicts. What follows isn't play acting. The people we talk about are the people you'll hear. It's the real McCoy. Shooting Gallery, according to the jargon of the underworld, is where men and women who have been hooked can get a shot of dope. But what about those desperate people who can't get the stuff? I've seen big, strong men sit up and cry all night. I've seen them tie their hair. I've seen them try to cut their wrists. I've seen them take the bub out of the light and try to kill themselves with it. Ready to get the glass. That man ought to know how it feels, for he's a drug addict himself. His story is hard to believe. You'll hear the rest of it in a moment. Narcotics in the hands of your doctor can be a blessing. But in unlicensed hands, hell on earth. The United Nations knows that in the past, trying to stop illegal drugs from getting into a country was like grabbing at a balloon. Squeeze it in one place and it pops out in another. Experience has taught us that the only way to tackle the dope racket is on a worldwide scale. And to get a complete story on narcotics today, United Nations Radio assigned Jeff Sparks to talk to everyone, from government agents to U.N. scientists, from dope peddlers to their victims, and to record exactly what they said in their own words. U.N. reporter Sparks began at the end of the line. He flew down to Lexington, Kentucky, to the U.S. Public Health Service Narcotics Hospital. Down around Lexington, they call it Narco. That's where an addict finally winds up, if he's lucky enough. Half of Narco are federal prisoners, the other half have gone there voluntarily. But they all have one thing in common. They're trying to get off drugs and keep off. That's not as easy as it sounds. We told you, this story is hard to believe. Listen for yourself. This narcotics addict is a former criminal lawyer, a judge. I have experienced what it can do to a man. At one time, I had a nice office, a nice practice. I had a happy family. I was making from $12,000 to $15,000 a year. Yeah. And I began to take a few drugs after drinking. First thing I knew, I was addicted. Did you feel the need of those drugs? Well, drugs get a hold on you. A hold on you. And it gets worse all the time. I mean, what first gave you the idea? You were drinking. You probably took a social drink once in a while. Is that true? Doctor gave them something to get over being drunk. Oh. Now, I was a judge. They called me the judge. And I was a successful criminal lawyer. Yeah. And I'd have a case where I'd want to sit on the bench. Yeah. And the doctor would come and give me a dose of morphine. Uh-huh. And gradually it got so that I had to have it before I could attend to my practice. I spent a whirl of money. I expect I spent $40,000 or $50,000 on morphine. As a matter of fact. Yeah. You're married? Married and had six children. And you just didn't realize the chance you were taking? I didn't know until I was so far gone. Uh-huh. That, well, you might say I got in a position where I couldn't help myself. You mean you were just powerless to resist the urge? You just can't live without it. You're miserable. You're uncomfortable. And you eventually reach a state where it don't bring you quite up to normal. Your mind don't function. Yeah. You can't think in the courtroom. You're depressed. And, uh, of course, all your clients see that. The public sees that now. And it just simply destroys you. That's the way it is with dope. It's no respecter of rank or position or brain. It doesn't matter who you are or where you are. What country, what town or city or what side of the tracks you live on. How do everyday people come to this? Why do they do it? Here are some answers from addicts themselves. I was working on an railroad at the time. I met some fellows who used it. Finally coached me to take a shot. They said we'll give you a good boot. It was just that I was extremely nervous and emotionally upset. Well, it was through ill health. Got addicted by kidney stones. Yes, sir. It relieved the pain. After they got the stones out, I had something worse than a kidney stone. A narcotic habit. Unfortunately, I've been an addict all my life. I was only a kid. I'm an old lady now. I'm 59. I was on drugs before I was old enough to attend school. There are many reasons given by the patients for being hooked on drugs. What does their medical director, Dr. Victor Vogel, think? Well, the answer, of course, depends on a thorough knowledge of what makes the man tick. We've got to help the man understand why he wanted to take drugs. In most cases, it depends on helping the man to an understanding of some emotional or psychiatric difficulty. We find in the great majority of our histories of patients here that they became addicts from association with others who were addicts. Narcotic addiction is a communicable disease just as truly almost as typhoid fever or diphtheria or smallpox. So narcotics addiction is a contagious disease. It affects all countries regardless of boundary. Since all the deals between the peddlers and the users are secret, there's no way of estimating the dollars, pesos, pounds, or yens of stuff that's sold each day. And all that means quick profits for the peddlers and a sure market, a soft racket. But there's always the risk of being caught. That's why prices are high. For example, the legal price for an ounce of morphine is $15. The peddler's price, $2,000. It isn't often that we get the lowdown from the peddler himself, as our U.N. reporter did. Were you pretty sick when you came in? I wasn't sick. I wasn't sick. No. Well, how'd you get here? I was brought here about two more shawks. Well, how did you come into contact with narcotics? I was selling narcotics. Yeah, well, how did you take it up? Well, it was just an idea of making money, that's all. Really? It was quick money and I wanted to make money. Well, what'd you think? Was it an easy way of getting some money? I did at first, but now I see it's not. Not so good. That's right. Well, did you realize at the very beginning what effect it would have on other people who were using it? No, I didn't. You were just interested in the commercial aspect. That's right. Pete the peddler was anxious to sell, to make a fast dollar. The addict is even more anxious to buy the drug. That's one of the great handicaps in drying up the illicit dope racket. The smuggler, the peddler, the customer. Each protects the other. And all three protect the shooting gallery. The place where you get the shot of dope. Shooting gallery is just one expression in the narcotic underworld dictionary. There are a lot more. We asked Elliot about it. Elliot is 62. He's been doing time since 1926. Elliot, tell me. I heard somebody use the expression around here, artillery. Does that mean anything? That is, uh, pandemic. And, uh, spoon and what it takes to use a shot. What other words can you think of? Well, if the guy's going out, he says, well, where can I score? You mean, where can he find stuff? Is there a connection around here? Oh. That means there's some guy selling stuff. Well, if there ain't no connection, where can I make a croaker? A croaker? Well, if you find a doctor, it'll, uh, take care of him. Is that what they call doctors? Yeah. That's very uncomplimentary, isn't it? Well, uh... What do they call morphine? They call it smack. Uh-huh. If a man is, uh, is going to be, uh, using cocaine, how would he refer to cocaine? Well, you say happy dust, probably. Uh-huh. Happy dust. Now, what do they call the fellow, uh, uh, who are the brains behind the narcotics, uh, ring? I mean, there must be somebody who, uh, who import this stuff. This stuff just doesn't, uh, spring. Well, I tell you, they call it the real people, and, uh, that, uh, used to, uh, do the importing as a syndicate. A syndicate? Yeah. Uh-huh. That was the first man that got the stuff when he came off the boat. Now, what do they call a federal narcotics agent? Well, uh, the uncle, as you say. Yeah, they call a federal narcotics agent uncle? Well, supposedly a man wants to say to you, I'm taking dope. How does he say? Well, he says, you know, I'm on stuff. I'm on stuff. Another guy said, well, what are you doing? You're using a jump now? Well, sure, I'm using stuff. Not a pretty picture, seeing a man of 62 with a wasted life. Just another case of a fellow who never had a chance, that's what you're probably thinking. The fact is that Elliot, the dope addict, is a graduate electrical engineer. It's bad enough when a grown person is on the stuff. But what of a child addict? Hooking a youngster. As UN reporter Sparks made his way from one end of narco to the other, he saw a young boy enter, carrying a suitcase. Sparks set up his portable microphone and secured what is probably the only actuality tape recording ever made for a teenager being admitted for narcotics treatment. Dr. Boval, what would you call this? The admissions office? This is the admissions unit, yes. Do you mind if I sort of eavesdrop on the gentleman who is admitting this man here? Not at all, providing his identity is not revealed. All right. Now we'll write down here the amount that you have remaining, which is $3.50, which will be properly deposited. Excuse me, what is your name? Sure. And you're a member of the U.S. Public Health Service? That's right. If you don't mind, I'd like you to just stay by here and please drop. Very well. What is your worth? I was going to school. How old are you? I'm 18. You're 18. Well, how long have you been on drugs? Approximately about a year and a half. About a year and a half. Well, how's it started? Just curiosity. You thought that you were going to get a big bang out of it, huh? Well, yeah, in the way. And what else did you expect? I didn't know what to expect. That's why I was curious. I guess curiosity makes a lot of people do different things. Well, what did you try first? No morphine or heroin or cocaine or marijuana? What was it? Well, heroin. Heroin. You had to buy it? Yes, it wasn't given to me. Where did you buy it? You don't have to tell me exactly where. I mean, from a peddler or from a... I guess you would call it a peddler. I mean, you had to find him. If you were curious, I guess you'd find some sort of way to find a person like that. I see. How long were you on it? About... Well, I'd been on it about two years. In other words, you really started using it when you were about 16. It was the end of... 15, going into 15 years. Mm-hmm. What would you tell any of your friends who were your age about, about the stuff? You haven't tried it yet. What would you tell them? Well, I'd probably say that it leads to nothing, you know. From what I have experienced, it doesn't do me any good. You go right ahead with the processing there. I'm sorry to have interrupted. That's all right. Are both of your parents living at this time? Yes. And the extent of your education to date? Senior year of high school. Completed the senior year? No, I didn't complete it. This boy is now entering a new world of hope. His first step at Narco is the most important. It's called withdrawal. The hospital's director, Dr. Vogel, tells us just what that means. A withdrawal refers to the period in which patients are removed from the drug, or to put it the other way, the drug is removed from the patient. A withdrawal may be accomplished abruptly, or as the patients call it, cold turkey. Most withdrawals these days are tapering or gradually diminishing withdrawals in which the drug is gradually reduced over a period of 5 to 30 days, depending on the practice in the particular hospital. Here, our practice is to substitute a different narcotic drug. It's a synthetic drug. This drug is substituted for morphine o'heroin, which is usually being taken on the outside, because withdrawal from the substituted drug methadone is less uncomfortable than from morphine o'heroin. We feel it's inhumane and causes needless suffering to patients who've been taking large amounts of drugs off abruptly. Experts will tell you that addiction begins in the mind, whether the victim is a thrill-seeker or is trying to avoid facing a problem. And that is why it is so important to root out depression, anxiety, and put in its place constructive, creative things. These give the mind satisfactions far beyond the fraudulent power of drugs. At Narco, you can see the wonders accomplished through occupational therapy. In the cabinet-making shops, the farms, the dairy, the gardens, the studio. Here, finding new interests are men and women whose only previous concern in life had been a hypodermic adult. Like this elderly lady with a talent she's just discovered, painting. That's an oil painting. That's oil, isn't it? Yes, it is. That isn't watercolor. Oh, no. It's a very lovely thing. This is supposed to be a table and a vase of flowers, and then just here I'm going to put some vines in it. That's just another little vase. See, that's the object over here. I painted it from that object there. The main thing is to work. I found that out. And then you get that peace of mind that nothing compares with it. Haven't you discovered that... Oh, in this picture and painting? Yeah. Oh, it's the most wonderful thing, the most fascinating thing I've ever undertaken to do. You have a self-expression. That's right. If you have something to say, you say it right on the painting. That's right. And then if you make a little mistake, you can cover that up so beautifully. Are you going to frame this picture when it's finished? Oh, I wouldn't part with this picture. I'm going to frame it and keep it forever because in this picture, at one time, I had it darker and then come lighter and the recesses of my mind, I could see that darkness leaving. And I've craved that light and that's why I did it over so many times. That's beautiful. But you've forgotten one thing. What's that? Your signature on the corner. Oh, no. I don't want fame. I just want peace of mind. Peace of mind. We've come a long way from handling a narcotics addict to the criminal to our present approach of treating him as a sick patient, which he is. But treating the patient after he has the disease is still but one step in solving the narcotics problem. The vicious circle has to be broken, and that starts with a surprising fact, a fact we'll hear about from a world authority as our UN microphone goes right into the Narco Research Laboratory, perhaps the greatest center for this type of investigation in existence. Here, scientists are probing for the answer. Over there is Dr. Isbell investigating sleeping pills. Dr. Altshull at the electroencephalograph studying the brainwaves of addicts. Dr. Nathan B. Eddy of the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, the World Authority on Narcotics is observing. He is the chairman of the Expert Committee on Habit-Forming Drugs of the UN's World Health Organization. He's been asked a question which probably goes right to the heart of the dope problem. Here is the answer. We have not made a pain-relieving drug which is free of habit-forming quality. But I understand that to this date, there is no drug which has the property of killing pain which can be stated definitely as being free from the danger of incurring a habit. That is true. Well, is this laboratory in which we are standing now, is this laboratory concerned with the discovery of such a thing? In this sense that one of its functions or one of its activities has been to determine the habit-forming qualities of these new synthetic substances, morphine derivatives and so on, which we hoped might have adequate pain-relieving power with less habit-forming quality. Well, if a man takes marijuana, for example, does that build up his sense of invincibility so that he can go out and rob a bank letter, say, without any fear? No. Does any drug give that? No. I was speaking to one of the patients. He said that after a shot, he felt like Superman. Well, drugs don't make criminals. They're already criminals. The drug may make it easier for them to commit the criminal act, but the criminal tendency was there to start with. I know that you are chairman of the Committee on Habit-forming Drugs of the WHO, the World Health Organization, the Specialized Agency of the United Nations. How does the United Nations come into this picture at all? If you want any adequate control over a narcotic drug, a habit-forming drug, it's got to be at the international level. Therefore, the United Nations is the logical, practical agency for doing that? Definitely. Can you think of any other way of handling it? No, because the different nations will have different degrees of control, and unless it is uniform, unless there is interchange of information about the amount of drug produced and shipped from one country to another, no matter how tight the control is in this country, you have an adequate control. You know, somebody once criticized Abraham Lincoln for telling some humorous stories during the darkest days of the war between the states. Lincoln replied that war is no laughing matter, but that he was sure a laugh made war a little more possible to bear. Narcotics addiction is no laughing matter either. But here, too, a laugh now and then helps a lot, all around. Our reporter, in his tour through Narco, saw tears, but also some smiles in the answers given his questions as he carried his microphone to the tables in the cafeteria. Okay, you got it. This is one of the most beautiful places I've seen. And, uh, you're in bluegrass country? Yeah. You know, people pay a lot of money for vacations. Well, if you're so... They can have mine, if you want. Excuse me, you're rolling by this cart. What's in this? Is that a food cart? Yes, that's correct. What's your first name? Willie. Willie? How do you like it here, Willie? I don't know. You know, I don't care so much for you. Okay, thanks. Thank you very much, Willie. Thank you. And I'm rolling. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Addiction to narcotics was once considered to be just a local affair. Today, dope addiction is more than ever a matter of international concern. Now, international action against illegal traffic and drugs isn't new. But the scope and methods being employed by the United Nations are new. Here is just one example. Somewhere on the East Coast, there's a United Nations detection center, which can trace and determine where opium is coming from. In a moment, by special tape recording, you will look over the shoulder of a UN chemist at work. First, come behind the scene at Washington, D.C. and meet the chief of the U.S. Federal Bureau of Narcotics, Mr. Harry J. Anslinger. Mr. Anslinger holds the all-important post of American representative on the UN's commission for narcotic drugs. He is questioned by another UN reporter, Michael Haywood. What have you found to be the chief problem in your fight against illicit narcotics traffic? The chief problem, as we see it, is to determine the country of origin of smuggled opium because that is the source of all the illicit traffic, not only in this country, but in the whole world. Some five years ago, we started a laboratory in Washington. And by scientific analysis, we have been able to determine just where the smuggled opium has come from. I assume what you're talking about is the new laboratory that you turned over to the United Nations together with its chief chemist, Dr. Fulton. We were only too glad to turn over the laboratories and personnel to the United Nations for this purpose. This is a worldwide problem, and so many of the delegates whose countries had in the past been charged of being the sources of origin had given us some proof that this opium has come from our country. From now on, there shouldn't be any doubt. Now to the detection center, the exact location of which cannot be revealed. UN scientists are at their jobs. Our reporter holds a chunk of raw opium in his hand. He turns to the chief chemist, Dr. Fulton. What would you say about this? Can you ascribe it to any country, just on the basis of the looks? It looks like Indian opium. I have here some different kinds of other opium that we might compare with it. Here's some Turkish opium. Notice that the texture is granular and it isn't nearly so dark. What's that long stick you have in your hand? That's a form in which uranium opium often comes. Well, what's your next step in determining the origin? The next step is to make a microscopic test. Now when you look at it, here under the microscope... May I look into the microscope? Oh, yes. You look and you'll see... What shall I look for? You'll see that there are long rods there. Oh, I see them. Little rectangular things, aren't they? Yes. Well, is that pretty conclusive evidence by now or do you take the thing further? Well, we take it considerably further. That's pretty conclusive considering the appearance, but we want to make some chemical tests and determine the amount of some of the alkaloids that are present. Where is the main opium center? It's grown largely in the Balkans, in Turkey, Iran, India, China, Mongolia, Asiatic Russia, Korea, Burma, Siam, and some other countries. With narcotics, both natural and synthetic, capable of coming from so many different places, it is obvious that anything with effective world control is no control. UN reporter Hayward asked the opinion of a representative of one of the countries where opium is grown, India. Mr. Gopala Menon, member of the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Mr. Menon, do you feel that the new United Nations laboratory will strengthen the UN fight to break up illicit drug traffic around the world? I have no doubt at all, because for the first time, you'll find that we will be able to find out exactly what the source of the opium means by internal chemical foolproof evidence. And there can't be anything better than that, tackle this question of illicit traffic. Is the Indian government going to cooperate with the UN laboratory? Oh, yes. The Indian government has already done its very best. And Mr. Anslinger has paid a tribute to the Indian government for their cooperation recently. And hereafter, certainly, we will be sending all our samples to the UN laboratory. What does it all add up to? The doctor, the lawyer, the peddler, the boy, the woman who found peace in painting, the investigator, the UN laboratory. It adds up to a family of nations working together to prevent more tragedies like the ones you've been listening to. I met some fellows who used it, finally coached me to take a shot. I was extremely nervous, emotionally upset. Well, it was through ill health. Unfortunately, I've been an addict all my life. Today, all legal trade in narcotics is under the control of the United Nations. The UN Narcotics Commission, with the Drug Supervisory Body and Central Opium Board, strictly regulate how much narcotics each country may import, export, and manufacture. By increasing international vigilance, investigation, research, and effective worldwide control, the illicit drug problem can be solved. When that day comes, narcotics will still perform its medical miracles and yet not wreck lives. Like that of 62-year-old Elliot, with whom our UN reporter spoke in the addiction ward of a narcotics hospital. Are you married, Elliot? No. Were you ever married? No. Didn't you ever want to be married? Yeah. What happened, Mr. Poirot? This. Shooting Gallery. The third in a new series of United Nations broadcasts. Mr. Gary Cooper was featured as guest narrator. This eyewitness account of illicit narcotics traffic, its victims, and its control, was prepared for radio by Jeff Sparks. All recordings heard were completely authentic. In order to protect the identity of the patients who appeared on this broadcast, no last names were used. Music was composed and conducted by Irving Zathmury. The program was produced by Gerald Keen of United Nations Radio. Music and racха cro зн, which were nervous aconteceries of the United Nations Radio. This transcribed program has been presented through the courtesy of the National Grange. The members of the National Grange offer this cooperation as they believe that the United Nations is striving to establish conditions of health, prosperity, freedom, and security for all peoples. Listen again next Thursday night, 11.30 to 12, for another program in cooperation with your United Nations. Tonight's program came to you from WNBC Studios and Radio City, New York, and starred Mr. Gary Cooper as narrator. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.