I'm speaking to you as International Chairman for the United Nations Appeal for Children. I want to place before you not only the terrific need of the world's children, but a practical plan that will enable all of us together to do something about it. It is a plan to which you, each and every one of you, can contribute. Because it is a United Nations plan, it offers us our first chance to take a direct part in a great international effort. In the entire world, one half of all the children are in critical need of food. There are 230 million infants and children under 15 whom we can actually help. It is hard for any of us to grasp such a staggering figure. Of course, much is being done in familiar and established ways to help these children. For a time, Unruh carried a gigantic part of the burden. But then, Unruh was discontinued. There is only one remaining source of help which so far remains untapped. And that is the goodwill of the world's people. People like yourself, who hundreds of millions strong represent the real power and authority on which the world's future must depend. Certainly, there is no better way for people generally to work for peace than by offering their help as individuals to the children who together compose a new generation. The United Nations' appeal for children is asking the people of every nation to give one day, one day for the world's children. This slogan, give one day, will have a different meaning for different groups. Businessmen may give a day's profits. Workers in factories and offices, a day's pay. Farmers, the value of a day's prodders. Now, what would it cost to help the 230 million children who are in such desperate need? For six months, the cost would be nearly one and a half billion dollars. Now, it's easy enough to say that this is an enormous figure and to be frightened by it. But let's all of us remember that the Allies spent one-fourth of this amount every day during nearly 2,000 days of World War Number Two for war materials alone. In other words, just to keep life and a minimum of health in these 230 million little bodies, we are asked now to spend less than the cost of four days of war. If we each actually give one day, we can meet their need. In the United States, the first newspaper stories about the appeal brought a quick and heartening response. Many people sent money directly to the United Nations and to the newspapers for transmission to the United Nations. They offered more than money. They offered their time. They offered their labor and their suggestions. Now, all this energy, sympathy, and understanding simply must be put to work. In the United States, the National Committee for the United Nations' Appeal for Children has already been established under the chairmanship of Mr. Lee Marshall. In the United States, the United Nations' Appeal will be coordinated with the campaigns of established overseas relief agencies. It will be known as the American Overseas Aid-United Nations' Appeal for Children. The campaign will take place in February. Now, the differences in disputes among members of the United Nations have been much publicized. The constructive accomplishments of the United Nations have been less well known. As I see it, the United Nations gives to us for the first time the chance to work together on a worldwide scale. The United Nations' Appeal for Children is a big step in that direction. The 230 million children for whom I speak are all living in a world that for them is very dark. All of us together have the power to turn on the light for them. If we fail to use that power, there can be no lasting peace for us. In the days and weeks to come, you'll be told by our American Committee the full details of just what you can do to help. And now, goodbye. The United Nations' Appeal for Children represents something new in international life, something of tremendous potential significance. The United Nations' Appeal for Children is appealing to individual men and women all over the world to take a personal part in its work by contributing to a great cause. This cause knows no boundaries of geography, race, creed or political belief. It is the cause of hungry, homeless, hopeless children, innocent victims of war and famine. The appeal thus aims at promoting world solidarity. It also has the immediate and practical purpose of raising funds. While private agencies engaged in child relief work may benefit directly from the national campaigns, it is intended that the bulk of the proceeds of the appeal should go to the International Children's Emergency Fund. This fund was set up by the General Assembly of the United Nations last year, and is now actively engaged in the distribution of relief supplies. Let me quote the resolution unanimously adopted by the Third Committee of the General Assembly a few weeks ago, under which the Assembly draws attention to the significance of the International Children's Emergency Fund, and to the need for supplying it immediately with funds to enable it to carry out its activities. N associates itself with the United Nations' Appeal for Children and recommends the people of all countries to cooperate for the success of this appeal. Curried to a successful conclusion, the results of the appeal will be many. The first and most important is the direct relief of human suffering. Many millions of children should benefit from the project. Another result is the unifying influence the appeal will have on people the world over. For the first time, individual people everywhere can unite in common action for the relief of their fellow human beings. Those of us who support the United Nations' Appeal for Children, and we will all be called upon to do so, We will have the satisfaction of knowing that we are striking a note of harmony in a world riven by discord and dissension. More than this, by taking an active part in this appeal, we will help to spread the idea of world unity and of the United Nations. We will help to save the health and the very lives of countless children, who may become, in the true sense of the word, world citizens of tomorrow. Considering the desperate urgency of the needs which we are organized to meet, It seems indeed a long time since the United Nations' Appeal for Children was first proposed to the General Assembly in November 1946. If that year seems long to us, how much longer it must have seemed to the children. Still more time must elapse before our work can give tangible help to them. But in establishing the International Advisory Committee, we are taking a new step towards our goal. Never before has there been such a worldwide undertaking. Yet, every country in the world provided a precedent for it through voluntary action taken by the people themselves in coping with their problems in war as in peace. During the war, wherever a bomb exploded, wherever a house caught fire, wherever children were hungry and homeless due to enemy action, the people on the spot organized themselves and came to the rescue. Had it not been for this instinctive and immediate action by individuals, the war could never have been won. I could tell you about the voluntary actions taken by the people in the Scandinavian countries. And as you all know, the story of Scandinavia is only an example of what happened in different ways in all countries. If this could happen in one country, in several countries, why couldn't it happen in all nations at the same time and for this same purpose? Here was a new and exciting experiment. Impelled by the vast world need, the General Assembly met the challenge and approved the idea. Approaches were made to organizations and governments in several countries. The response was so encouraging that the Secretary General was able to report general approval and to recommend that the project be undertaken. The recommendation was approved by the Economic and Social Council and the National Council and the National Council and the National Council and the National Council and the National Council and the National Council and the National Council. The appeal for children is worldwide and non-discriminatory. Whatever the quarrel may be between adults, feeding a hungry child is a non-controversial matter. Whatever the disputes may be between nations, the feeding of all starving children everywhere is equally non-controversial. The appeal is non-governmental. Although the governments are expected to facilitate the drive, it is the people themselves, through their voluntary national committees, who will do the big job. And the job of the International Advisory Committee is to help the Secretary General in a immediate task to build machinery to coordinate and stimulate the work of these national committees. Worldwide needs of children are so great that there has been some reluctance to face the facts. Now, for the first time, an effort is being made to arouse the conscience of humanity all over the world and focus it on this problem. Now, accordingly, we must look steadily at reality and give due recognition to the problems of each country. In the beginning of next year, the drive will be launched all over the world. We shall accomplish a great purpose as we attain our immediate objective, saving the lives of children. But by doing this, we shall also achieve something more. We shall set in motion the best impulses of people everywhere and thereby start on the way to peace and security for our generation as well as for theirs. Let us go on with our job. No purpose could be nobler. No effort too great. None. Else can actually be made available for any rejected and not back to our Montana federalists. Not done, we just have one more thing. Just put something out of French and praises around, and close out,ありがとうございます! In the memory of Mommiyorum, I'll s'kelly as a law