This is Irene Dunn bringing a message of hope to every victim of heart disease. Hope for the control of heart disease rests with the generosity of the people of this country. The job ahead is tremendous. For example, the basic causes of rheumatic fever, high blood pressure and hardening of the arteries, which cause 90% of all heart diseases, are still unknown. This calls for the greatest amount of research and of education to spread the medical facts we already possess among as many people as possible. Won't you open your heart and give generously to this national all-out attack on heart disease? Please send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. HEART. That's HEART 17, New York. This is Joseph Cotton. I recently returned from making a picture abroad. There I witnessed the devastation, the stark tragedy in the wake of a world war. But believe me, the loss of more than 600,000 persons each year from heart and circulatory diseases in this country is equally tragic. Individually, we Americans can do very little to combat heart diseases. Collectively, however, we can defeat any enemy. And we're fighting heart disease collectively when we support the HEART campaign of the Heart Association and its affiliates, providing funds for scientific research, education, and community heart services. Help our doctors to help you by donating to the HEART campaign. Send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. That's HEART 17, New York. This is Jack Benny, a very serious Jack Benny, because I'd like to talk about our country's most serious health problem, heart disease. Almost any problem can be solved through wholehearted cooperation, and our doctors say that if we all help, there's great hope that heart diseases can be controlled. Do you realize what that means to more than a million sufferers from heart disease? Do you fully realize how your cooperation can help to safeguard your heart and the hearts of your family and friends? That's why we should all get right behind the HEART campaign and with our contributions. Your gifts will support heart research, education, and service, and bring the hope of greater heart protection to you right in this community. Our doctors are doing their share to fight the heart diseases with every weapon of modern science. The least we can do is to help them with our dollars and cents. So let's open our hearts and give generously to the HEART campaign. Please send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. That's HEART 17, New York. This is Lowell Thomas speaking. In the course of my journeys to various parts of the world, I have either consciously or subconsciously done what every traveler does, that is, compare our country with others. No, I'm not one of those who think that we are superior in every way. Some folks do some things much better than we do. But when it comes to helping those in distress, trying to eliminate human suffering, there I believe we do a job that surpasses almost anything along that line done in other lands. For example, the way we are trying to check the most desperate of all human ailments, heart disease, which you no doubt know is the leading cause of death. And that brings me to the point. The HEART Association is now in the midst of a campaign which I heartily endorse. Let's open our hearts and our pocketbooks. Just address your contribution to HEART. Just that. H-E-A-R-T. That's HEART 17, New York. This is John Garfield. The HEART campaign has made me aware that actors and medical science have something in common, heart interest. Actors, of course, look for fictional stories dealing with the emotions. Our doctors have 600,000 heart and blood vessel disease fatalities every year, each with its real-life story of sorrow. Our doctors are doing all in their power to control these dread diseases. They are giving the public, through community HEART programs, the benefit of the latest advances in prevention, care, and treatment. So the least we can do is to provide the funds medical science needs to protect our hearts and the hearts of those we love. Please do your share by contributing to the HEART campaign. Send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. HEART. That's HEART 17, New York. Take your hands out of your pockets slowly. Now give me that gun. This is Humphrey Bogart as I usually sound in motion pictures. Now may I paraphrase that bit of dialogue as I really speak and feel. Please put your hands in your pocket fast. Now how about a generous contribution? What am I getting at? I'm urging you to give generously to the HEART campaign. Your contribution will be used to fight this nation's leading cause of death, heart disease. Your contribution will pay dividends in hope, in added protection through research, education, and community HEART programs. So open your heart, give, help your doctor fight heart disease. Send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. HEART. That's HEART 17, New York. This is Jackie Robinson. As a baseball player, I've learned how this great American sport has captured the hearts of America. But from my doctor, I've learned how heart disease has captured so many American hearts in another way. That's why I'm happy to ask you to help in this all-out attack against heart disease being waged by the affiliates of the American Heart Association. I have also learned that more than 600,000 people died last year of heart disease. That's something I didn't know. And lots of folks are just like me. They don't realize that even little children suffer from heart disease. That rheumatic heart disease is childhood's greatest enemy. So we just have to help our doctors if we expect them to help us in this fight. Every one of us, all races of us Americans, are going to be helped if we help too. So please open your heart, won't you? And give what you can to fight heart disease. Send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. HEART. That's HEART 17, New York. This is Arthur Godfrey. Say, have you ever wanted something so much that it hurt? I guess we all have, but usually it's something we could do without so easily. Well, millions of sufferers from heart diseases want something pretty badly too, but it's something that can't be done without. And that's hope. H-O-P-E, hope. It's a pretty tough thing to be without, you know. And yet, if every one of us would just dig down in his genes and give to the heart campaign, we'd bring hope to millions. The hope your contribution brings lies in the assurance that through more scientific research, more education, and more community service, heart diseases can be understood and controlled. So how about buying a little hope for yourself, your family, and your community? Come on, open your heart. Give to fight heart disease. Send your contribution to HEART. H-E-A-R-T. HEART. That's HEART 17, New York. The New York Heart Association presents America's most versatile singing star, Miss Jo Stafford. It's time for a song. It's time for a melody. Let's take a moment or two For tunes old and new To you from me It's Joe Stafford, together with the Starlighters, Paul Weston and his orchestra, your announcer Tom Reddy in The Heart of America. Hear that, folks? It's the sound of a heart. A great heart. A heart called America. It's gone strong and has been ever since its first baby beat back in 1776, that wonderful day in July. It's a long time ago. Faces are different. Styles have changed. But the heart is the same. But the heart is the same. From Maine to way back home in Indiana, it's beaten that same strong beat. Back home again in Indiana, And it seems that I can see the gleaming candlelight still shining bright through the sycamores for me. The newborn hay sends all its fragrance From the fields that I used to roam When I dream about the moonlight on the war back Then I long for my Indiana home I want to go back I want to go back Hope the candlelight's still shining bright I want to go back to the fields that roam I want to go back to my Indiana home The great heart of America beats loud and strong too in the sometimes forgotten hills of the great smoky mountains in Tennessee and Kentucky. Up there mingled with the green of spring and the white of winter Are folks whose courage has carried them through the growing pains of a new nation Through wars and hardship And they came through with an eager eye for a bright future And they had time to give this land of ours a voice A voice that sings of the hills He's gone away for to stay a little while But he's coming back if he goes ten thousand miles Oh, who will tie my shoes And who will glove my hand And who will kiss my ruby lips When he is gone Look away Look away Look away Over And Road He's gone away for to stay a little while He's gone away for to stay a little while But he's coming back if he goes ten thousand miles And it's Pappy And it's Pappy Who'll tie my shoe And Mammy Who'll glove my hand And you will kiss my ruby lips When he is gone Look away Look away Look away Over And Over And Over Yes, folks, strong hearts are beating all over America today, especially during the 1950 heart campaign. We Americans have conquered every enemy so far but heart disease. This nation's leading cause of death has not yet been controlled. Let's not forget the millions of Americans, strong in courage, who need our help. I mean the victims of heart disease who need the hope our doctors and scientists hold out for them through research, education, and community heart programs. Won't you open your heart and give? Let's all of us get in this fight. From the smallest town to fabulous New York City. New York City. New York City. Where Washington once walked the streets. Where General Grant is buried. Where buildings touch stars. The town that never sleeps. Even when the sun starts peeking around the tip of the Empire State. Morning, milkman. Morning, lady. Two quarts today, please. Mighty fine morning. Ah, mighty pretty. The rumble of the subway train, the rattle of the taxi. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Good morning. Ah, what good about it? Gee, what's the same? Every day's a busy day, up and down old Broadway. Get your butt, get your butt, right? God, have your voice to the folks' band home. Stand a record of your voice to the folks' band home. I said to him, now you listen to me, Bert. If you think for one... But the nights are better still. You start at eight and go until one, two, three, four. Well, where'll we go next? Oh, honey, I'm dead tired. It's five o'clock in the morning. When a Broadway baby says goodnight, it's early in the morning. Manhattan babies don't sleep tight until the dawn. Goodnight, baby. Good night, milkman's on his way. Sleep tight, baby. Sleep tight, let's call it a day. Listen to the lullaby of old Broadway. Listen to the lullaby of old Broadway. And far from Broadway in the great wide west, it's no different. And it wasn't different even a hundred years ago when the heart of America heard the news. Did you hear? They discovered gold in California. Gold at Center's Creek. Come on, men. Oh, Susanna, oh, don't you cry for me. For I come from Alabama with my band, you're on my knee. And the hearts of those men and women gave them the faith and strength to trek across deserts and prairies to build and create another corner of this land. Still going strong. And it's up to us, you and me, to keep it strong. The beat of the great heart we call America. But remember the Red River Valley And the girl that has loved you so true From this valley they say you are going We will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile For they say you are taking the sunshine That brightened our pathway a while Remember, remember, remember, remember Come and sit by my side If you love me Remember Do not hasten to bid me again Remember But remember But remember Remember The Red River Valley And the girl that has loved you so true Remember Remember Remember Remember Remember The girl that has loved you so true Remember Remember Remember Remember Remember And here, ladies and gentlemen, is our star, Miss Jo Stafford. Folks, the hearts of America, yours and mine, have never failed when anything worthwhile needed to be done. We can't fail now. We must help our doctors and scientists in their fight to control heart disease, our nation's number one health problem. Keep the hearts of America, our nation's number one health problem. Keep the hearts of America beating strong by giving all you can. Help our doctors help you. Open your heart and give to fight heart disease. Send your contributions to heart, H-E-A-R-T heart. Thank you. You just heard the heart of America, brought to you by the New York Heart Association, starring Joe Stafford with the Starlighters and Paul Weston and his orchestra. This program was written by Fred Hyder and directed by Bob Packham. Your master of ceremonies was Tom Reddy. To fight heart disease, send your contributions to the New York Heart Association. The address is Heart 17, New York. That's Heart 17, New York. The address is Heart 17, New York. Oooh! Thank you! . . . .
