WNYC in cooperation with the American Chemical Society News Service presents Headlines in Chemistry. Once again we bring you Headlines in Chemistry. News of the latest developments in chemical science and industry. Progress in science that will affect each and every one of us. With your news reporter, yours truly, George Boehm. And here is our first headline. Science can now rid the country of mosquitoes. The mosquito is doomed and so is the tiny bloodthirsty black fly. These biting insects can now be completely wiped out over enormous areas by man-made fogs loaded with DDT. With them will disappear malaria and the many other diseases they inflict on man. The job of destroying these pests can be done cheaply, thoroughly and quickly by a novel technique described this week at the American Chemical Society's national meeting in Chicago. Here's how this new method works. Small amounts of the insecticide DDT are dissolved in oil and poured into a fog generator that was specially designed for this purpose. It's something like the machines the Army and Navy use to lay smoke screens. But this generator gives out billowy clouds of fog which hug the earth and roll along with the wind. All the mosquitoes and flies, as much as a mile downwind from the generator, are killed. And the DDT in the fog even destroys the larvae, or the young insects, that breed in pools of still water. If the generator is put on a slow-moving truck, the whole countryside can be blanketed with fog in a short time. And this is by far the most economical way to kill insects. It takes only a pound of DDT for every five acres of open country, and only slightly more for wooded land. One of the best features of this fog technique is that it does not kill birds, bees, or fish. There is just enough DDT in the air to poison mosquitoes and black flies, which are very sensitive to the insecticide. According to Professor Victor K. Lemaire and Dr. Seymour Hochberg, who invented the generator at Columbia University, the secret of this way of killing mosquitoes lies in the size of the oil droplets that make up the fog. If the droplets are too large, they'll fall to the ground quickly, and they'll be wasted. On the other hand, if they're too small, the droplets are caught in tiny air currents that surround the insect as it flies. The DDT is not deposited on the insect's body, and does not get a chance to do its deadly work. You might say the mosquito is protected by its streamlined figure. Since mosquitoes and many other members of the fly family succumb to DDT fogs, Professor Lemaire and Dr. Hochberg feel that their invention will do a great deal to freeing the world from disease. Malaria, dysentery, and sleeping sickness are all carried by flies, and in a part of Africa, one out of every ten natives become totally blind from a disease transmitted by black flies. This fog technique was carefully worked out by Professor Lemaire, Dr. Hochberg, and scientists from the United States Department of Agriculture. And it's been tested with great success in Florida, Alabama, and upstate New York. It's also been used on Guadalcanal, where mosquitoes cause more casualties among our troops than Japanese bullets and bombs combined. Our chemist suggests making whiskey from sawdust. Good whiskey and plenty of it could be made cheaply from sawdust. So says Dr. Robert S. Aries of Brooklyn Poly. The customer might not be able to tell the difference between sawdust whiskey and the kind he drinks now, but the synthetic stuff would probably be smoother, and it would definitely be cheaper. Production could be started immediately, but there's one hitch. The Treasury Department, which regulates the manufacture of alcohol, probably would not permit it. But if it were allowed, making whiskey from sawdust would save tremendous amounts of grain to feed starving people. Dr. Aries concedes that people might not take to the idea of drinking alcohol made from sawdust, even though it would be exactly the same as alcohol from grain. But he thinks a good advertising slogan might help gain public acceptance, perhaps something like, made from wood and aged in the wood. Plutonium is a million times rarer than radium in nature. Man has only himself to blame if civilization is wiped out by the atomic bomb. Nature did not provide enough of the explosive element of plutonium to do much damage. Back in 1942, when the problem of producing plutonium by the pound in the atomic pile had not yet been solved, some scientists thought we might have to get the element from natural ores. The obvious place to look for plutonium was in the uranium minerals, because these behaved like low-powered atomic piles. Uranium ores were examined, and natural plutonium was found, but in such insignificant amounts that the idea had to be abandoned. Instead, scientists on the bomb project concentrated their efforts on making plutonium artificially. How well they succeeded, we know now. At this week's American Chemical Society meeting, the results of the search for plutonium were reported for the first time in a paper by Professors Seaborg and Garner of the University of California and Professor Bonner of Washington University in St. Louis. They said that there is only one 100 million millionth of a pound of plutonium in each pound of uranium ore. This makes plutonium about a million times scarcer than radium. The mechanical professor knows all the answers. A mechanical professor, a machine that automatically grades homework and examination papers, is helping to relieve the shortage of teachers. With an unbiased electric eye, the new robot can examine and mark 10 test papers a minute, and it almost never makes a mistake. This intellectual machine is now being used in several colleges, and it was described by Professor W.H. Steinbeck of the University of Miami, Florida. The tests are printed on sheets of heavy paper, and the students answer the questions by making check marks with a special heavy black pencil. Then the papers are fed into the mouth of the mechanical professor, who compares the checks with a set of the correct answers. According to Professor Steinbeck, students appreciate the machine because the marking is always absolutely fair. Chemists find possible cure for the blind staggers. Yes, there really is a disease called the blind staggers. Men who raise livestock out west will tell you it's no joke either. Each year it kills hundreds of their sheep and cattle. Blind staggers has been recognized for hundreds of years. One of the first to describe it was Marco Polo, the Italian adventurer who visited China in the 13th century. But until recently, no one knew what caused the disease. Twenty years ago, when the problem became acute in the dry plains of the west, Department of Agriculture chemists went to work on it. They found out that blind staggers, or alkali disease as it's sometimes called, was caused by traces of the element selenium in the soil. Selenium is the metal that makes electric eyes respond to light. The government scientists did not find a way to cure selenium poisoning. So they marked the areas where there was a lot of the element in the soil, and advised farmers to grow their crops and pasture their livestock elsewhere. This week, Dr. I. Gordon Fells and Dr. Vernon Cheldelin of Oregon State College announced that they have found a simple treatment for blind staggers. They said that selenium poisoning can be counteracted by doses of methionine. Methionine is one of the amino acids, the building blocks of protein. The methionine treatment must be tested more thoroughly, but it does look promising. Chemical invention may increase gasoline production. The output of sorely needed gasoline and fuel oil may be greatly increased with the aid of a new catalyst or chemical stimulant. The catalyst helps convert heavy crude oil into gasoline and the kind of light fuel oil burned in home furnaces. According to three chemists from the Esso Standard Oil Company, the invention makes it possible to get almost 25% more gasoline from petroleum. The new catalyst is a synthetic mineral called silica magnesia. It's a chemical combination of dried-out milk of magnesia and ordinary white sand. After thorough tests in small refineries, it is now ready to be put to work on a large scale. You've been listening to Headlines in Chemistry, brought to you by our city station in cooperation with the American Chemical Society News Service. This is George Bohm inviting you to join us again next week at this time when we'll bring you news of science and industry on... Headlines in Chemistry. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. All this stuff back to you fromω- marshalling system in cooperation with lithium-ion. All this stuff? All this stuff? And the analytical software?
