Commanded by the king, the heralds blew once more on the trumpet. The princess has been found. Tomorrow the royal pair will be married. Hear ye, hear ye. The wedding feast starts for ten days and ten nights. But Cinderella and the prince, they lived happily ever after. Oh, that only happens in fairies. Nothing like that would ever happen to me. Oh, and why not? How do you know what's going to happen to you in the future? Nobody knows that. I didn't know there was anyone in the room. I was just practicing to read this story at a party for children. You see, I want to be a radio actress, but I haven't gotten a single part this whole year. Nothing but storytelling at children's parties. Well, look at me. I'm the cleaning woman here in the studio. Ever since I was a girl, I wanted to go on the stage. I'm over seventy now. Never expected to get a part in the Cinderella broadcast. Oh, but what do you think? Last week they gave me the script to read it, and told me to study the fairy godmother's part. It's going on the air today. Oh, not really. Oh, I'm so glad for you. You know, I've been haunting this studio for months, and they've never given me a chance. Oh, now whatever you do, don't get discouraged. Perhaps I can get you in the show. Oh, that would be wonderful. But of course it's too late now. Could you be up on your part by reading it over in a few hours? Of course I could. I've done it before. Well, look. The leading lady who used to play Cinderella told me yesterday that she wasn't feeling well. Oh, and she only wished she didn't have to come in this afternoon. I'll call her up right away and see if I can fix it before she leaves the house. I don't know why you're so good to me. How can I ever... Thank you. Never mind that now. Just wait a little while. I'll see what I can do. Oh, here's the script. Read it over and study it while I telephone. Oh, I just know the other girl won't give me a chance. I've understudied so many times. Never once was I called. I've promised that nice old lady so I'll read the script over anyway. Yes, you can't be in the play. The girls in bed want you to take a power. Oh, how wonderful. What a break for me. I have to fix it up with the announcement. Oh, here he comes. Why isn't she here? Why isn't my Cinderella here? Because she's sick in bed and won't be able to come to the broadcast. Oh, but this young lady has been studying the part. I know she'll make good. Great heavens! We can't take a chance with an unknown actress. I only had a day's notice. I'm sure I can do it, sir. Well, I have no choice. You can go into my office and read your part over. I'll call you when your turn comes. Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, we are about to present a modern version of that classic fairy tale, Cinderella. Here we have a girl of the present day who was badly treated by her two stepsisters. Will she make the grade and marry the prince, who happens to be the judge's son in a small town? That is the problem. Don't forget, there are no fairy godmothers today who can change a pumpkin into a coach, and five rats into five horses, mitch into coachmen, and so forth. Cinderella of 1948 has a much harder time of it. But we shall see. We shall see. Here we are, Abigail. Our invitation is to the judge's mansion for the big dance. It's all in honor of his son's return from the army. How wonderful, Phoebe. My Captain Mortimer will certainly have a grand homecoming. Oh, but look. This year that the celebration will last for three nights. Oh, with a formal ball each night. Oh, what excitement for the village of Meadowbrook. We must hurry and send the letter with the money order. Otherwise, the dresses we picked out of the catalog won't arrive on time. Where's that pokey Ella? Oh, she's downstairs in the cellar trying to fix the furnace. Abigail, she's so clumsy. I know. Well, this afternoon she had the house filled with smoke. I never did see a girl like her. Her fingers are all thumbs. Ella, hurry up here. You have to go to the village on an errand right away. Hi, Sonny. Just wait a minute. I'm almost there. I declare Ella would wear out the patience of an angel. Doesn't seem possible to train her to do things right. Here I am. Just look at you. Ashes and cinder in your hair. Oh, I will have to call you Ella from the cellar. Oh, that's just the name for her. You really hit on it, sister. You might as well call me Cinderella and be done with it. You treat me just like the girl in the fairy tale was treated by her, too, step-treaters. Now that will do, Ella. Don't forget we may be your step-sisters, but we have given you a good home. You ought to be glad you weren't sent to the county off an asylum. You always were an ungrateful brat. I try so hard to please you no matter what I do at all. You never give me a kind word. Now stop it. Not another word from you. All we require of you, Ella, is to take this letter to the village post office right away. Abigail and I are picking out our dresses from the capital aisle. Also two pairs of gold pumps. We've been invited to the judge's ball. The ball in honor of Captain John Mordywood? Couldn't I go, too? Please? I never go anyplace. You? You'd only disgrace us. You're just liable to spill ice cream all over the table or step on your partner's feet. She wants to go. Can you imagine it, sister? Oh, yes, indeed. Ella would certainly disgrace the family. Besides, she hasn't any clothes fit to wear. Now, here's the money. You will buy the postal order and enclose it in this letter. And for heaven's sake, don't lose the money on the way. And don't waste one minute either. Well, hurry up. We have to get our dresses on time. All right. We have to get home while everybody goes to the dance. I'm sure I'd look nice, too, if I had some clothes. There's nothing I can do about it. I can do about it. Who is it? I'm the egg woman. I brought a sweet egg for your sister. Oh, please come in. Thank you for the egg. Quite cold, my child. I'd like to warm up a bit before continuing around. Of course. I'll be glad to have you. I'm all alone, you see. My knees been crying. Now, you don't have to tell me what's the trouble. I know all about the ball, and I know how your stepsisters treat you. How would you like to go to the judge's mansion tonight? But I haven't anything to wear. I wouldn't feel right in such a beautiful place. Now, look, your child. When I was a girl, I acted on the stage. It is? How interesting. Yes, but the fact is, I was a girl. I acted on the stage. And... It is? How interesting. Yes, but the fact is, I still have my costumes up in the attic. Some of them are very beautiful. Just like the evening dresses the girls are wearing today. How would you like to pick one out and wear it to the ball tonight? Oh, that sounds too good to be true. I'd love it. Oh, but I'm afraid I'll have to be here. I have no indication. Besides, my stepsisters will be terribly angry. I have no invitation. I have no invitation. Well, that doesn't matter. Judge Mortimer invited every single girl in Meadowbrook. Oh, don't worry about your sisters. I'll put a blonde wig on you, and use theatrical makeup, or they'll never recognize you. Why? They won't even know you went to the ball. You can be the mysterious lady. It'll make things more interesting. But how could I get to the Judge's mansion? It's almost a mile from here. Oh, and what's wrong with my jeep? Takes me all over with the eggs, doesn't it? Why could you come to my house first, pick out the dress, and then we'll drive down to the ball? Oh, how wonderful. I'm so happy. Why, if you are just like the fairy godmother in the story of Cinderella. Oh, and that's what I aim to be, dear. Well, this nonsense has gone on long enough. The fairy idea of your sisters making a household drudge of you, I'll show them what's what. Oh, you come along with me. Come along with me. Whatever you do, Whatever you do, I want you to promise me that you'll leave the ball before midnight. That way I can get you home before your sisters arrive. Oh, with a blonde veil over your dark curls and stage makeup, I'll never recognize you. Let me see. Where did I put those gold slippers I wore when I played little Eva in a first time as kid? I was never so happy in all my life. It all seemed like a dream. Well, whatever you do, don't forget to meet me before midnight in the back of the judge's mansion. I'll be waiting there with the car. Oh, yes, I'll be there before midnight. Oh, how can I ever thank you, fairy godmother? Oh, on earth is that strange girl in that gorgeous pink gown. Hmm. You know, baby, she reminds me of one of those actresses in the stock company. You remember? They played at Meadowbrook High School last spring. I think you're right. Well, doesn't she look like the girl that sang? Just a bleach blonde, if you ask me. Mm-hmm. And see how attentive Captain Mortimer is. Why, he has eyes for no one else. Very idea of inviting actresses to a respectable ball. Oh, it's a shame. I was expecting to dance with her. Oh. And so was I. Don't you try to get ahead of me, dear. Oh, dear. Who are you? I didn't know you were such a gorgeous girl in that book. Oh, dear. Please don't ask me, Captain. I can't tell you now. Let me keep my name a secret for just a little while. I'll be back in a minute. Wait right here. I'll be back in a minute. Yes, sir. Oh, I simply can't describe it, Godmother. Captain Mortimer made me promise to come to the ball tomorrow night, too. Can you imagine? He asked me for every single day. Indeed, I can imagine. Now, see here, Ella. I'll call for you tomorrow night again after your sister's left. And see. This time, you'll wear the blue gown. Whatever you do, leave before midnight. Because I intend to wait for you in the same place. Dear Godmother, thank you a thousand times. I promise to leave on time. I guess I'll be thinking of slept with Mortimer all day. I'll be thinking of slept with 9 years later. Thank you. Thank you. If you can see掉 into need of a green bowl and say that, again, you should check through the Sarange and wait for the ball. But instead, this time, you should be multiplied by your boy. You get great. Look spent one day down there. I'll push up to a halfgles. I'll push up to plaque with spine.ID contract. and go.