Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. To introduce today's roundtable, we present Harrison Brown, atomic scientist of the University of Chicago. Mr. Brown. We have been going through a period in which there has been much heat but little light. General MacArthur, relieved of his command by President Truman, has flown home amidst tumultuous applause, strong condemnation, and violent controversy. Heeded statements have been made by both Republicans and Democrats. Our newspapers have personalized the incident to the point where it resembles a conflict of two Roman gladiators in the arena, far more than a conflict of ideas over issues. Most of us are asked these days, are you for MacArthur or Truman? Such a question is, of course, beside the point. It is far more important that we consider what is right rather than who is right. The President himself apparently believes this, for he is quoted by John Hersey in the New Yorker magazine as saying, and I quote, I tell you, we've got to stop this name-calling. It weakens us here in this country. What we've got to do is persuade people to lay off personalities and talk about issues, unquote. Today, the Roundtable proposes to present some of the basic issues involved in the conduct of our foreign policy, especially in relation to the Far East. For this purpose, we have assembled a group of people who have had long experience in this field. Our first speaker today is Hugh Borton, Professor of Japanese, the Asian Institute at Columbia University. Mr. Borton has been associated with the United States Department of State in various capacities, including Chief of the Northeastern Asian Affairs Division and the Japanese Division. Recently, he served as United States member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Reforms of the Far Eastern Commission. To present Mr. Borton, we take you now to New York. Thank you, Mr. Brown. All of us in the United States and many people of the world have had foremost in our minds this return of General MacArthur, his speech before Congress, and the various questions he has raised on our policy in the Far East. Many of you, doubtless personally, have participated in his homecoming, but the formal welcome is over and many naughty questions are still with us. Since hearing his speech and since talking with all sorts of people about it, one basic question keeps coming up in my mind. That question is simply whether or not the only victory possible for us in Korea is a military victory. General MacArthur obviously is thinking in military terms when he advocates the use of Chiang Kai-shek's forces in Formosa for an attack on the Chinese mainland or when he advocates the bombing of communist bases in Manchuria. He failed, however, to point out in his speech one all-important alternative when he made no reference to a single one of our friendly nations in Europe or when he omitted to mention friends in Asia such as Australia and New Zealand and when he left out reference to the United Nations. The basic question, therefore, I would like to put before you is this. Can't this victory we are all talking about in Korea be achieved by diplomacy without appeasing Red China? Should we not stop to consider, in view of the obvious risks of a Third World War involved in any other action, whether other steps other than expansion of military ones aren't open to us? Let us remember that the Korean communists were in complete control of all of North Korea last June before they began their attack. Let us also remember that the Chinese communists entered the Korean War with the avowed purpose of pushing us out of all of Korea. This they have failed to do. Our forces and those of our allies have already withstood two major assaults by the communists. The communists have been pushed back once more north of the 38th parallel. The Korean communist army has suffered tremendous losses. Even the Chinese communist armies in Korea have suffered severely in casualties and in loss of materiel. True, there are continuing reports that they are preparing for a Third assault, but our military leaders tell us that they are confident that we can contain such an attack. Can the communist leaders, therefore, under these circumstances, by any stretch of the imagination, consider efforts we might make at the present time for a cease-fire as a sign of weakness or of appeasement? I firmly believe not. It is obvious, furthermore, from the reactions abroad to General MacArthur's proposals, that many of our friends in Western Europe would refuse to go along with us if we adopted the policies he recommends. The whole concept of the North Atlantic organization would be threatened. Strong as we may be, we must soberly face the fact that if such a policy involved us in a war with the Soviet Union, we might be faced with the task of fighting the Soviets alone. Consequently, rather than search for ways and means of extending the war, I recommend that while we continue to keep the communist armies in Korea off balance, we give our support to the efforts of the United Nations to obtain an agreement from the Chinese communists for a cease-fire. When they realize they cannot attain their objectives in Korea without continued heavy losses, it seems to me probable that they might agree first to a cease-fire, second to the establishment of a neutral zone across the waist of Korea between Pyongyang and Seoul, and third to the formation of United Nations armistice teams which would patrol that neutral zone to assure observance of the cease-fire arrangement. When this point has been reached, we could then consider what our next step should be. Certainly if the Chinese coast is attacked or if Manchuria is bombed, it will be too late to win a victory except by war. If we do not ask them for a cease-fire, they will certainly not come forward with the suggestion. Such being the case, let us seek for a victory in Korea by diplomatic means, an honorable victory which has no relationship with appeasement, rather than concentrating all our efforts on trying to find military alternatives with all the risks they involve. We return you now to Chicago. Thank you, Mr. Borton. Next in this University of Chicago roundtable analysis of some of the basic foreign policy issues facing America today, we hear Mr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, formerly Chief of the Division of Far Eastern Affairs of the Department of State. Mr. Hornbeck was formerly United States Ambassador to the Netherlands, and he was a member of the American delegation to the Dumbarton Oaks Conference. And now to present Mr. Hornbeck, we take you to Washington. General MacArthur gave the people of the United States a more vivid account of the situation in the Far East and the problems which therein and therefrom confront the free world than had heretofore emanated from any source. Of Asia and Europe, the broad influence of the one cannot fail, he said, to have its influence upon the other. Both are threatened by communism, the menace of which is global. You cannot appease or otherwise surrender to communism in Asia without simultaneously undermining our efforts to halt its advance in Europe. The basic issues? The great issue confronting the peoples of the Far East is to be or not to be free. They are all in danger of being enslaved by communism in the service of Soviet imperialism. The great issue within the United Nations is whether, confronted with communism's global effort, to resist with first emphasis in Europe or with first emphasis in Asia. The immediate issue for and in the United States is how best to fight the war in which we are actually engaged in Asia, that is, in Korea. The United States has greater stakes, all told, and greater responsibilities in the Far East than has any other Occidental power. Our interests lie in the Pacific as well as in the Atlantic. We have special responsibilities in the Pacific. Consider our position, for instance, in and regarding Japan. In the United Nations, the European governments contend for a policy of Europe first. In the immediate actualities, however, of the situation in the Far East, there lies support for the view, widely though not conclusively held in the United States, that priority of attention and emphasis should be given to meeting and effectively halting the communist assault where it is hottest. In the hostilities in Korea, armed forces of the United Nations are committed, are fighting, and are dying. The policy thus far pursued is based on an assumption that Soviet and world communism can be pacified short of world conquest, and the Chinese communists be pacified short of victory for communism in Eastern Asia. The contention of General MacArthur, and of many observers whose views coincide with his, is based on a belief that communism means conquest, that the Soviet Union intends to win the whole world for Kremlin-dominated communism, that the Chinese communists are bent on winning the whole Far East, and that not until armed aggression is defeated, where and when it occurs, can diplomatic processes be expected to have any permanently useful effects. The proponents of victory by diplomacy hope that the present armed conflict can be kept local. They contend that the Chinese enemy may be induced by his heavy losses there, and an offer of concessions in his favor, to enter into a cease-fire, then an agreement, then a withdrawal, and thereafter a policy in course of non-aggression. The proponents of greater and more extensive military effort contend that only by winning a clear-cut military victory can we induce the Chinese to desist and withdraw, and that we can win such a victory only if we destroy their bases in Manchuria, and further weaken them by military pressures elsewhere. They base this concept on hard-headed reading of history, and objective scrutiny of the words and the acts and the needs of the communist leaders. Our government is in a difficult position. This country wants to avoid war, but we are at war. We do not want more war. We want to finish the war we already have, but not by appeasement. The objective of war is, as General MacArthur says, victory. But we can defeat the enemy only by striking him where he comes from. That, the Europeans, and so far our own policymakers say, would involve us in a morass of operations in China, and might bring the Russians in and mean a world war. No, says the MacArthur School of Thought, no need for us to operate in China. Let China's nationalists do that. And as for the Russians, they will come in when they choose, and only because they choose. But Europe holds back, and we need the cooperation of Europe, and the confidence and full support of the United Nations. There can be no guarantees of success for any course, risks attached to whatever course. It does seem a matter of common sense in fighting against communist aggression in Asia, to have joined with us in that effort all the forces in Asia that are willing and able to be so joined. The South Koreans are with us. There are Filipinos with us. The Chinese nationalists want to be with us. Why not let them be? Why not give them support? Not toward their fighting in Korea, and not toward our fighting in China, but toward their renewing in China the battle which they fought there for 20 years against communist aggression. It is by no means inconceivable, as one looks at the present building up of communist forces in Korea and in Manchuria, that the enemy action will, before long, put an end to some of the United Nations, and that includes us, some of their speculating, wishing, hoping, if-ing, but-ing, and may-being, just as in December 7, 1941, the Japanese action disposed of a good many such questions. It is conceivable also, but with less apparent reason, that the Chinese communists may say, and may act, let us have peace. Either way, and any other way, until we can talk to them from strength, the ultimate initiative remains with their sponsor in Moscow. Our prayer should be, let us not be deceived. Our determination should be, let us not deceive or mislead ourselves or others. Our effort in the United Nations effort should be not only to avoid any form of appeasement, but to demonstrate convincingly that armed aggression anywhere is outmoded, and, whether in Asia or in Europe or elsewhere, will be dealt with summarily. We return you now to Chicago. Thank you, Mr. Hornbeck. And now the round table turns to Clyde Mitchell, Chairman of the Department of Agricultural Economics at the University of Nebraska. Mr. Mitchell was formerly head of the National Land Commission in Korea, and President of the New Korea Company, the organizations responsible for the redistribution of Japanese confiscated properties in Korea. To present Mr. Mitchell, we take you now to Omaha. The MacArthur position, right or wrong, was a direct challenge to the aims and existence of the United Nations, and this country is determined that the UN will endure. But the man on the street thinks that inasmuch as MacArthur has been some years in the Orient, he knows more about what's going on than the President and Chiefs of Staff. Since communism has brought nothing but continued oppression to Asia, I challenge the experts who claim that we should have supported the Communists instead of Chiang Kai-shek. But on the other hand, the reactionary and corrupt bureaucracy that surrounded John, and thwarted his feeble attempts at reform, is hardly deserving of the crocodile tears that are being shed by politicians at the moment. I challenge the experts who claim that we should aid Chiang in retaking China. And I challenge the experts who say that Chiang's government has in the past few months, given the island of Formosa such a wondrously honest, efficient, and progressive government, that Chiang has thereby earned another chance. Now that I've dismissed some of the experts, let me tell you my opinion as to what I think will work to halt creeping communism in all of the world, and might have worked in China had we insisted strongly enough in the early 40s. Reform will work. Supporting reactionary governments will not work. I was head of the National Land Administration in South Korea, managing 600,000 acres of the country's best farm lands. Before I left in 1948, we started a land reform program by selling this land to the long-oppressed farm tenants at reasonable prices. The program was a success, and went a long way to strike at the dissatisfaction on which communism breeds. Two years before, with much fanfare, the North Korean communists had put over their brand of land reform, claiming that they gave the land away free. The peasants later found out they had been cheated. The free world and Russia both promised land reform to Korean farmers. Russia disappointed. America delivered. I submit that wherever the free world has offered social reform to the people, we have discovered that we can stop the march of Soviet imperialism, and win the even greater struggle for human betterment at the same time. Economic and social reform, promptly and adequately undertaken, can stabilize and strengthen the non-communist world, and turn international communism into a minor force indeed. Aside from the hard core of Moscow-trained leaders, the communists in Asia are often misery-ridden humans, who have despaired of getting relief from the status quo. Yet what are we to do if the Soviet Union once again orders her armed puppets into military attack against some other independent nation? In that case, force must be met with force. I hope that the other UN members will soon see what has been obvious to us in America for some time, that the ultimatum should be delivered not to the puppet government alone, but to the Soviet Union herself. Many Americans have regretted the lack of courage shown by UN members in the present struggle. It's been obvious to us for some time that the Chinese were aggressors. Why, then, can't our neighbors see the same thing? Some Americans demand angrily that we force the UN to vote on our side. We chafe at the UN's timidity. But we must bear in mind that if America forced her will on the UN, the organization would collapse. It took valuable weeks for the UN to decide with us on China, but it decided. It will take more weeks for it to vote with us to destroy the air bases across the Yalu, but I'm confident that we will win on that issue, too. If the US were to go ahead against the reluctance of other UN members and do what MacArthur demands, we could hurt China, but we might find ourselves standing alone with the real war, the atomic war, yet to be fought. Patience is needed on the part of Americans and UN soldiers fighting an enemy whose air bases and factories are still privileged sanctuaries. MacArthur is insisting that the United States unilaterally take action that would wreck the UN. He even implied that the UN had already failed, and we might as well get on with the war. He might be right. Nevertheless, our national policy demands, indeed the future of civilization itself demands, that we continue to try as long as there is any hope at all. The issue is, shall we or shall we not abandon the UN, admitting that man has no future except war? We return you now to Chicago. Thank you, Mr. Mitchell. We now hear from Harold Fisher, chairman of the Hoover Institute, Stanford University. To present Mr. Fisher, we take you now to San Francisco. I find myself in general agreement with the statements which Mr. Mitchell has just made with regard to the importance of reform in our policy in Asia. I would like to comment just a little bit more on that point, and taking off from what General MacArthur said in his eloquent address to the Congress and the nation last week. He said, as you may recall, that the Asian peoples know that the colonial era is over, that the peoples of Asia covet the right to shape their own destinies. He said that world ideologies play little part in Asian thinking, and that Asians want more food and clothing and shelter, and that they seek friendly guidance, understanding and support, and that they want the dignity of equality and not the shame of subjugation. Well, I believe that this is a true statement of the situation. If it is, then the fundamental issue would seem to be this. Will these Asians, who are seeking friendly guidance, understanding and support, find what they seek in America and her allies, or will they, through misunderstanding and disappointment, turn in desperation to communist totalitarianism? The great issue in Asia for American policy is how to give this friendly guidance, and to win the minds and loyalties of the Asians. And the second question is the place of military action in this larger struggle. Public opinion here in America and abroad has not, I think, realized how General MacArthur has applied these principles of his to his policies in Japan. Nor has public opinion realized how significant for American policy toward Asia are the reforms introduced in Japan since V-J Day. These reforms include constitutional rights of assembly, freedom of speech and religion, the renunciation of war, equal rights for women, new school systems, a breakup or control of the great industrial monopolies that aided and partially inspired Japanese militarism. And of the greatest significance, a great land reform. Such reforms as these are urgently needed in Southeast Asia and elsewhere on the continent. In some areas, we Americans have supported such reforms. In some, we have not. In some places, we have actually supported regimes that oppose these reforms. In other places, we appear as the exclusive champions of reform which we, as a people, believe in and try to practice. In fact, there are places in Asia where anyone who advocated the MacArthur program of reforms would be denounced as a communist or clapped into jail. These reforms and the technical aid carried on in Japan give us a program and a body of experience of great value. If we are to give Asia the friendly aid and guidance the Asians want, if we don't give it, the communists will. And they will give it dressed not in their clothes, but in ours. As to the second issue, as to the part of military action in this great struggle, in his speech, the General MacArthur approved the decision to send American boys to fight in the defense of South Korea. But then he said that they read China's intervention had created a new war and a new situation which needed new decisions. Those decisions which the General believes should be made are well known. Well, whether this should lead to involvement in China and a Russian intervention are matters of opinion. But two things about these proposals are not opinions, but facts. One is that the leaders of the Arab Asian nations, who like General MacArthur also approved the defense of South Korea, have opposed and will continue to oppose the General's recommendations. They oppose them because they fear the spread of war and because they suspect that the extension of military operations, or directly or indirectly, means a kind of Western dictation. A revival of what General MacArthur called the shame of subjugation. A second fact about the General's recommendations is that they appeal to many Americans who are impatient and frustrated and saddened, and who hope that by these means we could gain a victory in Korea and a victory would end the war. George Kennan, in a recent thoughtful article, speaks of the American bad habit of assuming that there is something final and positive about a military victory, that it is the ending of something and the happy ending rather than the beginning. We have learned from our experience of victories in two world wars, that the long-range significance of a military victory is its relation to the aims of the struggle of which it is a part. In the present struggle, the objective is not the conquest of territory, but the defense of freedom and the winning of the minds of men. In this world conflict, warfare on land and sea and in the air are vitally important part of the struggles for the defense of freedom. But it is only one part of the struggle for the minds of men. A military decision in Korea would not be a real victory in the perspective of time if we lost the confidence of those Asians who are looking for friendly guidance and understanding. We might bear in mind a famous book on the art of war written in the 6th century BC. And in that book, the author Sun Tzu said this, To fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence. Supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting. And now we return you to Chicago. Thank you, Mr. Fisher. To conclude today's round table, we turn to Herman Feiner, author of The Theory and Practice of Modern Government, political scientist of the University of Chicago. Mr. Feiner. I am now going to suggest that MacArthur's dismissal was, regardless of the merits of his policy, if any, in the best interests of the people of the United States. An advisor may be right on a particular occasion, but he may so violate constitutional principle as to threaten the democratic way of life itself, if condoned. Lincoln said, often a limb must be amputated to save a life, but a life is never wisely given to save a limb. What is the ruling principle of American government? Who in this democracy is the authorised maker of policy, especially foreign policy, on which hang war and peace, life and death? This is no plaything for ticker tape heroes. Our constitution vests authority in a president elected by the people. This ever since George III and Generals Burgoyne and Cornwallis were thrown out by those who led the war of independence. This nation has rejected what has been called the never-ending audacity of appointed persons. This is an elective democracy. All the rest is dictatorship. The authority of the people is embodied in the president as commander-in-chief of the armed forces. If any government official, whether he be a civilian or a military bureaucrat, conflicts with the elected and responsible executive or legislature, who is to prevail? Can there be any doubt that defiant and disobedient MacArthur's must go? If not, an appointed official is usurping the power of the people. Where would the example end? The expert in military affairs ought to be on tap and not on top. It is particularly important to insist that the military expert be a loyal subordinate, because the democratic way of life is in danger from men trained to the heroism, glory, ambition, and peculiar subjections of the military life. Offsetting the patriotism and magnanimity of a George Washington, history has given us a warning in the military destroyers like Caesar, Napoleon, and Hitler. And only yesterday, almost, the American people were criticizing the Germans for Generals Hindenburg and Ludendorff, and the French for Marshal Pettin. This brings us to another consideration of tremendous weight, namely, that the foreign policy of the American government must rest on a truly global basis, that is to say, on the map of the entire world and a map of all time to come. Our security and happiness hang on this. America's allies, as well as America's enemies, must be assured that American foreign policy is clear, unconfused, and constant. Its unmistakability, I repeat, its unmistakability is a deterrent to her enemies at the same time as it is a comfort to her friends. How else can they measure their responsibilities, what they owe to America and themselves, opposed policies? The world is now being given a demonstration that the President's policy is America's one and only policy, at least I hope. The clarification has rather been too long delayed than too abruptly asserted. I feel very deeply for a brave and able soldier who has not received clear orders of battle, and this was MacArthur's situation. I consider the Security Council's resolutions a sorry example of lack of political courage. Its members neither backed up their votes by a clear positive resolution about the campaign beyond the 38th parallel, nor came to a decision about the treatment of Red China. Thank you, gentlemen. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.